Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 28 of 70”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 28 of 70”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 28 of 70”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 28 of 70”
Table: 28	Table: 28	Table: 28	Table: 28
		
REVENUE BUDGET			DESCRIPTION OF FUNDS
Grants Special Revenue Fund - 228		
Established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for grants the City receives from federal, state, or	Established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for grants the City receives from federal, state, or	Established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for grants the City receives from federal, state, or	Established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for grants the City receives from federal, state, or
non-profit agencies.	The grants may have a fiscal year other than July to June and may span multiple years.	The grants may have a fiscal year other than July to June and may span multiple years.	The fund
accounts for the City’s revenue and expenditures for the COPS Universal grants along with other grants.	accounts for the City’s revenue and expenditures for the COPS Universal grants along with other grants.	accounts for the City’s revenue and expenditures for the COPS Universal grants along with other grants.
CAPITAL FUNDS DESCRIPTIONS		
The capital funds of the City of Chesapeake were designed to account for the revenues and expenditures of capital	The capital funds of the City of Chesapeake were designed to account for the revenues and expenditures of capital	The capital funds of the City of Chesapeake were designed to account for the revenues and expenditures of capital	The capital funds of the City of Chesapeake were designed to account for the revenues and expenditures of capital
projects, debt service, and long-term capitalized leases of the City of Chesapeake.	projects, debt service, and long-term capitalized leases of the City of Chesapeake.	projects, debt service, and long-term capitalized leases of the City of Chesapeake.
City-Wide Debt Fund - 401		
Established to service debt payments.	The revenue earned in this fund would be related to interest earnings on unspent	The revenue earned in this fund would be related to interest earnings on unspent	The revenue earned in this fund would be related to interest earnings on unspent
bond issues and other cash balances		
ENTERPRISE FUNDS DESCRIPTIONS	ENTERPRISE FUNDS DESCRIPTIONS	
The enterprise funds of the City of Chesapeake were designed to account for the revenues and expenditures of self-	The enterprise funds of the City of Chesapeake were designed to account for the revenues and expenditures of self-	The enterprise funds of the City of Chesapeake were designed to account for the revenues and expenditures of self-	The enterprise funds of the City of Chesapeake were designed to account for the revenues and expenditures of self-
supporting functions that are operated by the City of Chesapeake.	supporting functions that are operated by the City of Chesapeake.	supporting functions that are operated by the City of Chesapeake.
Public Utilities Funds - 501 through 510	Public Utilities Funds - 501 through 510	
Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the various aspect of operating the Public Utilities	Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the various aspect of operating the Public Utilities	Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the various aspect of operating the Public Utilities	Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the various aspect of operating the Public Utilities
Department.	Most of the revenues for Public Utilities are accumulated in the Utility Revenue Fund with various other	Most of the revenues for Public Utilities are accumulated in the Utility Revenue Fund with various other	Most of the revenues for Public Utilities are accumulated in the Utility Revenue Fund with various other
funds only earning interest on their unspent cash balances.	funds only earning interest on their unspent cash balances.	The funds include:
Utility Operating Fund - 501 where the operating expenditures of the Utilities Department are paid.	Utility Operating Fund - 501 where the operating expenditures of the Utilities Department are paid.	Utility Operating Fund - 501 where the operating expenditures of the Utilities Department are paid.	Money is
transferred into this fund monthly to meet operating expenses.	transferred into this fund monthly to meet operating expenses.	transferred into this fund monthly to meet operating expenses.
Utility Water/Sewer Construction Fund - 502 where interest is earned and expenditures are incurred for construction	Utility Water/Sewer Construction Fund - 502 where interest is earned and expenditures are incurred for construction	Utility Water/Sewer Construction Fund - 502 where interest is earned and expenditures are incurred for construction	Utility Water/Sewer Construction Fund - 502 where interest is earned and expenditures are incurred for construction
projects such as the upgrade to the Water Treatment Plant.	projects such as the upgrade to the Water Treatment Plant.	
Utility Renewal and Replacement Fund- 504 where major renewal and replacement projects are funded and interest is	Utility Renewal and Replacement Fund- 504 where major renewal and replacement projects are funded and interest is	Utility Renewal and Replacement Fund- 504 where major renewal and replacement projects are funded and interest is	Utility Renewal and Replacement Fund- 504 where major renewal and replacement projects are funded and interest is
earned on available funds.		
Utility Debt Service Reserve Fund - 506 where funds are held in reserve to pay debt service, maintain bond covenants,	Utility Debt Service Reserve Fund - 506 where funds are held in reserve to pay debt service, maintain bond covenants,	Utility Debt Service Reserve Fund - 506 where funds are held in reserve to pay debt service, maintain bond covenants,	Utility Debt Service Reserve Fund - 506 where funds are held in reserve to pay debt service, maintain bond covenants,
and earn interest.		
Utility Capital Improvement Fund - 507 where assets and liabilities are accumulated, debt service is paid on G.O.	Utility Capital Improvement Fund - 507 where assets and liabilities are accumulated, debt service is paid on G.O.	Utility Capital Improvement Fund - 507 where assets and liabilities are accumulated, debt service is paid on G.O.	Utility Capital Improvement Fund - 507 where assets and liabilities are accumulated, debt service is paid on G.O.
Bonds, and interest is earned.		
Utility Revenue Bond Fund - 509 where funds are accumulated to pay debt service on Revenue Bonds issued for Public	Utility Revenue Bond Fund - 509 where funds are accumulated to pay debt service on Revenue Bonds issued for Public	Utility Revenue Bond Fund - 509 where funds are accumulated to pay debt service on Revenue Bonds issued for Public	Utility Revenue Bond Fund - 509 where funds are accumulated to pay debt service on Revenue Bonds issued for Public
Utilities.	These funds earn interest prior to distribution.	
City of Chesapeake, Virginia		97	FY 2010 - 2011 Operating Budget
