Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 70”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 70”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 70”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 70”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 70”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 70”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 70”
Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1
					
REVENUE BUDGET	REVENUE BUDGET			ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS	ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS	ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS
ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES	ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES	ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES	ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES	ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES	ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES
The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 700 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 700 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 700 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 700 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 700 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 700 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 700 line items representing different sources. More
than half of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 83% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than half of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 83% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than half of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 83% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than half of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 83% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than half of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 83% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than half of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 83% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than half of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 83% of General Fund, while intergovernmental
transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 17% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 17% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 17% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 17% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 17% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 17% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 17% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source
is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from
state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In
addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come
"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"
structure are key factors.	structure are key factors.				
The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide
services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and
income, the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	income, the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	income, the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	income, the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	income, the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	income, the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	income, the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and
commercial construction, business investment in plant and equipment, and	commercial construction, business investment in plant and equipment, and	commercial construction, business investment in plant and equipment, and	commercial construction, business investment in plant and equipment, and	demand for local real property are at the	demand for local real property are at the	demand for local real property are at the
core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base
by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and
creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services
continue to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.	continue to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.	continue to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.	continue to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.	continue to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.	continue to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.
NATIONAL ECONOMIC OUTLOOK	NATIONAL ECONOMIC OUTLOOK				
Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy
are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic
Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest
"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"
economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military
goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The U.S. and many other national economies are just now	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The U.S. and many other national economies are just now	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The U.S. and many other national economies are just now	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The U.S. and many other national economies are just now	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The U.S. and many other national economies are just now	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The U.S. and many other national economies are just now	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The U.S. and many other national economies are just now
coming out of a severe recession that began in December of 2007, the result of a correction to a credit and asset value	coming out of a severe recession that began in December of 2007, the result of a correction to a credit and asset value	coming out of a severe recession that began in December of 2007, the result of a correction to a credit and asset value	coming out of a severe recession that began in December of 2007, the result of a correction to a credit and asset value	coming out of a severe recession that began in December of 2007, the result of a correction to a credit and asset value	coming out of a severe recession that began in December of 2007, the result of a correction to a credit and asset value	coming out of a severe recession that began in December of 2007, the result of a correction to a credit and asset value
Congressional Budget Office	Congressional Budget Office	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012
Includes Presidents Budget	Includes Presidents Budget	Actual			Forecast
March 2010 Forecast	March 2010 Forecast	2008	2009	2010	2011	2012
Nominal GDP Growth	Nominal GDP Growth	3.3%	-1.3%	3.2%	2.8%	5.6%
Real GDP Growth	Real GDP Growth	1.1%	-2.5%	2.2%	1.9%	4.4%
Consumer Price Index Change	Consumer Price Index Change	3.8%	1.7%	1.6%	1.1%	1.2%
Unemployment Rate	Unemployment Rate	5.8%	9.3%	10.1%	9.5%	6.5%
Three-Month Treasury Bill Rate	Three-Month Treasury Bill Rate	1.4%	0.1%	0.2%	0.7%	2.9%
Ten-Year Treasury Note Rate	Ten-Year Treasury Note Rate	3.7%	3.2%	3.6%	3.9%	4.5%
Philadelphia Federal Reserve	Philadelphia Federal Reserve	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012
Survey of Professional Forecasters	Survey of Professional Forecasters		Actual		Forecast
Median Forecasts	1st Qtr 2010		2009	2010	2011	2012
Nominal GDP Growth	Nominal GDP Growth		-1.2%	4.1%	4.7%	N.A.
Real GDP Growth	Real GDP Growth		-2.5%	3.0%	2.9%	3.4%
Consumer Price Index Change	Consumer Price Index Change		1.1%	1.7%	2.1%	2.3%
Unemployment Rate	Unemployment Rate		9.3%	9.8%	9.2%	8.3%
Three-Month Treasury Bill Rate	Three-Month Treasury Bill Rate		0.2%	0.4%	1.7%	3.1%
Ten-Year Treasury Note Rate	Ten-Year Treasury Note Rate		3.3%	3.9%	4.5%	4.8%
City of Chesapeake, Virginia	City of Chesapeake, Virginia		70		FY 2010 - 2011 Operating Budget	FY 2010 - 2011 Operating Budget
