Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 17 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 17 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 17 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 17 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 17 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 17 of 174”
Table: 17	Table: 17	Table: 17	Table: 17	Table: 17	Table: 17
				
	General Fund Revenue Summary	General Fund Revenue Summary	General Fund Revenue Summary	General Fund Revenue Summary
		General Property Taxes	General Property Taxes	
General Property Taxes include revenues received from levies made on real and personal	General Property Taxes include revenues received from levies made on real and personal	General Property Taxes include revenues received from levies made on real and personal	General Property Taxes include revenues received from levies made on real and personal	General Property Taxes include revenues received from levies made on real and personal	General Property Taxes include revenues received from levies made on real and personal
property owned as of January 1 by county residents and businesses.	property owned as of January 1 by county residents and businesses.	property owned as of January 1 by county residents and businesses.	property owned as of January 1 by county residents and businesses.	property owned as of January 1 by county residents and businesses.
The real property tax is by far the most important source of tax revenue for localities. Real estate	The real property tax is by far the most important source of tax revenue for localities. Real estate	The real property tax is by far the most important source of tax revenue for localities. Real estate	The real property tax is by far the most important source of tax revenue for localities. Real estate	The real property tax is by far the most important source of tax revenue for localities. Real estate	The real property tax is by far the most important source of tax revenue for localities. Real estate
property taxes on residential and business land and buildings are expressed as a rate per $100 of	property taxes on residential and business land and buildings are expressed as a rate per $100 of	property taxes on residential and business land and buildings are expressed as a rate per $100 of	property taxes on residential and business land and buildings are expressed as a rate per $100 of	property taxes on residential and business land and buildings are expressed as a rate per $100 of	property taxes on residential and business land and buildings are expressed as a rate per $100 of
assessed value, which is adopted by the Board of Supervisors for the calendar year during the	assessed value, which is adopted by the Board of Supervisors for the calendar year during the	assessed value, which is adopted by the Board of Supervisors for the calendar year during the	assessed value, which is adopted by the Board of Supervisors for the calendar year during the	assessed value, which is adopted by the Board of Supervisors for the calendar year during the	assessed value, which is adopted by the Board of Supervisors for the calendar year during the
budget process.	The adopted tax rate is then applied to the values of individual property as of	The adopted tax rate is then applied to the values of individual property as of	The adopted tax rate is then applied to the values of individual property as of	The adopted tax rate is then applied to the values of individual property as of	The adopted tax rate is then applied to the values of individual property as of
January 1 of the current calendar year.	January 1 of the current calendar year.	January 1 of the current calendar year.		
Two processes, in accordance with statutes in the Virginia Code, determine real property values.	Two processes, in accordance with statutes in the Virginia Code, determine real property values.	Two processes, in accordance with statutes in the Virginia Code, determine real property values.	Two processes, in accordance with statutes in the Virginia Code, determine real property values.	Two processes, in accordance with statutes in the Virginia Code, determine real property values.	Two processes, in accordance with statutes in the Virginia Code, determine real property values.
New construction and subdivided property, created during the prior calendar year, are assessed	New construction and subdivided property, created during the prior calendar year, are assessed	New construction and subdivided property, created during the prior calendar year, are assessed	New construction and subdivided property, created during the prior calendar year, are assessed	New construction and subdivided property, created during the prior calendar year, are assessed	New construction and subdivided property, created during the prior calendar year, are assessed
based on market values established during the most recent reassessment expressed as a	based on market values established during the most recent reassessment expressed as a	based on market values established during the most recent reassessment expressed as a	based on market values established during the most recent reassessment expressed as a	based on market values established during the most recent reassessment expressed as a	based on market values established during the most recent reassessment expressed as a
percentage of completion.	Real property that existed as of January 1 during a year of general	Real property that existed as of January 1 during a year of general	Real property that existed as of January 1 during a year of general	Real property that existed as of January 1 during a year of general	Real property that existed as of January 1 during a year of general
reassessment is assessed on the basis of market evaluation with those values remaining in effect	reassessment is assessed on the basis of market evaluation with those values remaining in effect	reassessment is assessed on the basis of market evaluation with those values remaining in effect	reassessment is assessed on the basis of market evaluation with those values remaining in effect	reassessment is assessed on the basis of market evaluation with those values remaining in effect	reassessment is assessed on the basis of market evaluation with those values remaining in effect
as the basis for taxation until the next general reassessment and/or until such property is	as the basis for taxation until the next general reassessment and/or until such property is	as the basis for taxation until the next general reassessment and/or until such property is	as the basis for taxation until the next general reassessment and/or until such property is	as the basis for taxation until the next general reassessment and/or until such property is	as the basis for taxation until the next general reassessment and/or until such property is
improved or subdivided.				
Personal property taxes are assessed by classifications as permitted by statute in the Virginia	Personal property taxes are assessed by classifications as permitted by statute in the Virginia	Personal property taxes are assessed by classifications as permitted by statute in the Virginia	Personal property taxes are assessed by classifications as permitted by statute in the Virginia	Personal property taxes are assessed by classifications as permitted by statute in the Virginia	Personal property taxes are assessed by classifications as permitted by statute in the Virginia
Code.	The rate(s) adopted during the annual budget process and applied in accordance with	The rate(s) adopted during the annual budget process and applied in accordance with	The rate(s) adopted during the annual budget process and applied in accordance with	The rate(s) adopted during the annual budget process and applied in accordance with	The rate(s) adopted during the annual budget process and applied in accordance with
§58.1-3506 are separate from those classifications used for valuation purposes according to the	§58.1-3506 are separate from those classifications used for valuation purposes according to the	§58.1-3506 are separate from those classifications used for valuation purposes according to the	§58.1-3506 are separate from those classifications used for valuation purposes according to the	§58.1-3506 are separate from those classifications used for valuation purposes according to the	§58.1-3506 are separate from those classifications used for valuation purposes according to the
classes outlined in §58.1-3503 and are not to be considered separate classes for rate purposes.	classes outlined in §58.1-3503 and are not to be considered separate classes for rate purposes.	classes outlined in §58.1-3503 and are not to be considered separate classes for rate purposes.	classes outlined in §58.1-3503 and are not to be considered separate classes for rate purposes.	classes outlined in §58.1-3503 and are not to be considered separate classes for rate purposes.	classes outlined in §58.1-3503 and are not to be considered separate classes for rate purposes.
In accordance with the consensus of the Board of Supervisors in 2005, the Commissioner of the	In accordance with the consensus of the Board of Supervisors in 2005, the Commissioner of the	In accordance with the consensus of the Board of Supervisors in 2005, the Commissioner of the	In accordance with the consensus of the Board of Supervisors in 2005, the Commissioner of the	In accordance with the consensus of the Board of Supervisors in 2005, the Commissioner of the	In accordance with the consensus of the Board of Supervisors in 2005, the Commissioner of the
Revenue was instructed to assess all property at its actual fair market value. Depending upon the	Revenue was instructed to assess all property at its actual fair market value. Depending upon the	Revenue was instructed to assess all property at its actual fair market value. Depending upon the	Revenue was instructed to assess all property at its actual fair market value. Depending upon the	Revenue was instructed to assess all property at its actual fair market value. Depending upon the	Revenue was instructed to assess all property at its actual fair market value. Depending upon the
classification outlined in §58.1-3503, the Commissioner of the Revenue shall value most tangible	classification outlined in §58.1-3503, the Commissioner of the Revenue shall value most tangible	classification outlined in §58.1-3503, the Commissioner of the Revenue shall value most tangible	classification outlined in §58.1-3503, the Commissioner of the Revenue shall value most tangible	classification outlined in §58.1-3503, the Commissioner of the Revenue shall value most tangible	classification outlined in §58.1-3503, the Commissioner of the Revenue shall value most tangible
personal property by means of a recognized pricing guide or as a percentage of original cost. As	personal property by means of a recognized pricing guide or as a percentage of original cost. As	personal property by means of a recognized pricing guide or as a percentage of original cost. As	personal property by means of a recognized pricing guide or as a percentage of original cost. As	personal property by means of a recognized pricing guide or as a percentage of original cost. As	personal property by means of a recognized pricing guide or as a percentage of original cost. As
stated in §58.1-3503B, methods of valuing property may differ among the separate categories, so	stated in §58.1-3503B, methods of valuing property may differ among the separate categories, so	stated in §58.1-3503B, methods of valuing property may differ among the separate categories, so	stated in §58.1-3503B, methods of valuing property may differ among the separate categories, so	stated in §58.1-3503B, methods of valuing property may differ among the separate categories, so	stated in §58.1-3503B, methods of valuing property may differ among the separate categories, so
long as each method used is uniform within each category, it is consistent with requirements of	long as each method used is uniform within each category, it is consistent with requirements of	long as each method used is uniform within each category, it is consistent with requirements of	long as each method used is uniform within each category, it is consistent with requirements of	long as each method used is uniform within each category, it is consistent with requirements of	long as each method used is uniform within each category, it is consistent with requirements of
this section, and may be reasonably expected to determine actual fair market value as determined	this section, and may be reasonably expected to determine actual fair market value as determined	this section, and may be reasonably expected to determine actual fair market value as determined	this section, and may be reasonably expected to determine actual fair market value as determined	this section, and may be reasonably expected to determine actual fair market value as determined	this section, and may be reasonably expected to determine actual fair market value as determined
by the Commissioner of the Revenue.	by the Commissioner of the Revenue.	by the Commissioner of the Revenue.		
The State Corporation Commission, in conjunction with the Virginia Department of Taxation,	The State Corporation Commission, in conjunction with the Virginia Department of Taxation,	The State Corporation Commission, in conjunction with the Virginia Department of Taxation,	The State Corporation Commission, in conjunction with the Virginia Department of Taxation,	The State Corporation Commission, in conjunction with the Virginia Department of Taxation,	The State Corporation Commission, in conjunction with the Virginia Department of Taxation,
establishes real and personal property tax values on property owned by regulated public utilities,	establishes real and personal property tax values on property owned by regulated public utilities,	establishes real and personal property tax values on property owned by regulated public utilities,	establishes real and personal property tax values on property owned by regulated public utilities,	establishes real and personal property tax values on property owned by regulated public utilities,	establishes real and personal property tax values on property owned by regulated public utilities,
which include electric, telephone, and water companies.	which include electric, telephone, and water companies.	which include electric, telephone, and water companies.	Public service corporation real property	Public service corporation real property	Public service corporation real property
cannot be assessed at a greater percentage of fair market value than other real property owned	cannot be assessed at a greater percentage of fair market value than other real property owned	cannot be assessed at a greater percentage of fair market value than other real property owned	cannot be assessed at a greater percentage of fair market value than other real property owned	cannot be assessed at a greater percentage of fair market value than other real property owned	cannot be assessed at a greater percentage of fair market value than other real property owned
within the County. The Virginia Department of Taxation establishes annually a sales assessment	within the County. The Virginia Department of Taxation establishes annually a sales assessment	within the County. The Virginia Department of Taxation establishes annually a sales assessment	within the County. The Virginia Department of Taxation establishes annually a sales assessment	within the County. The Virginia Department of Taxation establishes annually a sales assessment	within the County. The Virginia Department of Taxation establishes annually a sales assessment
ratio that is used to establish current market value on public service corporation real property.	ratio that is used to establish current market value on public service corporation real property.	ratio that is used to establish current market value on public service corporation real property.	ratio that is used to establish current market value on public service corporation real property.	ratio that is used to establish current market value on public service corporation real property.	ratio that is used to establish current market value on public service corporation real property.
The Commissioner of the Revenue is then required annually to reflect those new values as	The Commissioner of the Revenue is then required annually to reflect those new values as	The Commissioner of the Revenue is then required annually to reflect those new values as	The Commissioner of the Revenue is then required annually to reflect those new values as	The Commissioner of the Revenue is then required annually to reflect those new values as	The Commissioner of the Revenue is then required annually to reflect those new values as
established by the State Corporation Commission.	established by the State Corporation Commission.	established by the State Corporation Commission.		
Revenue Summary:				
		FY 13 Adopted	FY 14 Adopted	
		Budget	Budget	Dollar Change	% Change
	Real Estate Tax	26,930,110	26,940,000	9,890	0.0%
	Public Service	510,000	594,000	84,000	16.5%
	Personal Property Tax	8,461,985	8,591,985	130,000	1.5%
	Mobile Home	36,000	43,000	7,000	19.4%
	Penalties & Interest	494,000	530,000	36,000	7.3%
	Total Property Taxes	36,432,095	36,698,985	266,890	0.7%
		13		
