Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 32 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 32 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 32 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 32 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 32 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 32 of 174”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 32 of 174”
Table: 32	Table: 32	Table: 32	Table: 32	Table: 32	Table: 32	Table: 32
					
person’s ability to renew their vehicle registration. This DMV “stop” fee is repaid to the County by	person’s ability to renew their vehicle registration. This DMV “stop” fee is repaid to the County by	person’s ability to renew their vehicle registration. This DMV “stop” fee is repaid to the County by	person’s ability to renew their vehicle registration. This DMV “stop” fee is repaid to the County by	person’s ability to renew their vehicle registration. This DMV “stop” fee is repaid to the County by	person’s ability to renew their vehicle registration. This DMV “stop” fee is repaid to the County by	person’s ability to renew their vehicle registration. This DMV “stop” fee is repaid to the County by
the taxpayer; therefore, there is offsetting revenue in the amount of $56,000 in Recovered Costs.	the taxpayer; therefore, there is offsetting revenue in the amount of $56,000 in Recovered Costs.	the taxpayer; therefore, there is offsetting revenue in the amount of $56,000 in Recovered Costs.	the taxpayer; therefore, there is offsetting revenue in the amount of $56,000 in Recovered Costs.	the taxpayer; therefore, there is offsetting revenue in the amount of $56,000 in Recovered Costs.	the taxpayer; therefore, there is offsetting revenue in the amount of $56,000 in Recovered Costs.	the taxpayer; therefore, there is offsetting revenue in the amount of $56,000 in Recovered Costs.
Included in the budget of the Department of Information Technology is the cost of various	Included in the budget of the Department of Information Technology is the cost of various	Included in the budget of the Department of Information Technology is the cost of various	Included in the budget of the Department of Information Technology is the cost of various	Included in the budget of the Department of Information Technology is the cost of various	Included in the budget of the Department of Information Technology is the cost of various	Included in the budget of the Department of Information Technology is the cost of various
software licenses and software maintenance fees used throughout the County and School	software licenses and software maintenance fees used throughout the County and School	software licenses and software maintenance fees used throughout the County and School	software licenses and software maintenance fees used throughout the County and School	software licenses and software maintenance fees used throughout the County and School	software licenses and software maintenance fees used throughout the County and School	software licenses and software maintenance fees used throughout the County and School
Division. The majority of these fees are shown as Computer Licenses and Maintenance Service	Division. The majority of these fees are shown as Computer Licenses and Maintenance Service	Division. The majority of these fees are shown as Computer Licenses and Maintenance Service	Division. The majority of these fees are shown as Computer Licenses and Maintenance Service	Division. The majority of these fees are shown as Computer Licenses and Maintenance Service	Division. The majority of these fees are shown as Computer Licenses and Maintenance Service	Division. The majority of these fees are shown as Computer Licenses and Maintenance Service
Contracts.					
Additionally, Microsoft is discontinuing the desktop operating system running on most County	Additionally, Microsoft is discontinuing the desktop operating system running on most County	Additionally, Microsoft is discontinuing the desktop operating system running on most County	Additionally, Microsoft is discontinuing the desktop operating system running on most County	Additionally, Microsoft is discontinuing the desktop operating system running on most County	Additionally, Microsoft is discontinuing the desktop operating system running on most County	Additionally, Microsoft is discontinuing the desktop operating system running on most County
desktops, and Microsoft will stop supporting the current product.	desktops, and Microsoft will stop supporting the current product.	desktops, and Microsoft will stop supporting the current product.	desktops, and Microsoft will stop supporting the current product.	desktops, and Microsoft will stop supporting the current product.	A substantial investment of	A substantial investment of
$137,952 will be needed to bring licensing current on all machines.	$137,952 will be needed to bring licensing current on all machines.	$137,952 will be needed to bring licensing current on all machines.	$137,952 will be needed to bring licensing current on all machines.	$137,952 will be needed to bring licensing current on all machines.	
Included in the Insurance function is the cost shifting from the State to the locality for the Virginia	Included in the Insurance function is the cost shifting from the State to the locality for the Virginia	Included in the Insurance function is the cost shifting from the State to the locality for the Virginia	Included in the Insurance function is the cost shifting from the State to the locality for the Virginia	Included in the Insurance function is the cost shifting from the State to the locality for the Virginia	Included in the Insurance function is the cost shifting from the State to the locality for the Virginia	Included in the Insurance function is the cost shifting from the State to the locality for the Virginia
Line of Duty Act.	This act provides benefits for police officers and firefighters and their families	This act provides benefits for police officers and firefighters and their families	This act provides benefits for police officers and firefighters and their families	This act provides benefits for police officers and firefighters and their families	This act provides benefits for police officers and firefighters and their families	This act provides benefits for police officers and firefighters and their families
when they are seriously injured or killed in the line of duty.	when they are seriously injured or killed in the line of duty.	when they are seriously injured or killed in the line of duty.	when they are seriously injured or killed in the line of duty.	Localities consider this an unfunded	Localities consider this an unfunded	Localities consider this an unfunded
state mandate.					
		Judicial	Judicial		
This section encompasses an array of services relating to court functions.	This section encompasses an array of services relating to court functions.	This section encompasses an array of services relating to court functions.	This section encompasses an array of services relating to court functions.	This section encompasses an array of services relating to court functions.	This section encompasses an array of services relating to court functions.
Expenditure Summary:					
		FY 13 Adopted	FY 14 Adopted	FY 14 Adopted	
		Budget	Budget		Dollar Change	% Change
	Circuit Court Judge	74,778	75,432	75,432	654	0.87%
General District Court	General District Court	31,750	27,990	27,990	(3,760)	-11.84%
Commissioner of Accts	Commissioner of Accts	500		600	100	20.00%
	Magistrates	1,700		1,000	(700)	-41.18%
	J & D Court	19,275	12,940	12,940	(6,335)	-32.87%
	Court Service Unit	225,245	254,000	254,000	28,755	12.77%
Colonial Group Home	Colonial Group Home	214,494	214,594	214,594	100	0.05%
Clerk of Circuit Court	Clerk of Circuit Court	425,049	427,849	427,849	2,800	0.66%
	Victim Witness	76,062	68,524	68,524	(7,538)	-9.91%
	Commonweath Atty	644,769	688,295	688,295	43,526	6.75%
	Total Judicial	1,713,622	1,771,224	1,771,224	57,602	3.36%
Budget Comments:					
The number of juveniles in the court system has increased.	The number of juveniles in the court system has increased.	The number of juveniles in the court system has increased.	The number of juveniles in the court system has increased.	These costs are a function of the	These costs are a function of the	These costs are a function of the
number of juveniles in the court system and the various budget reductions in the State	number of juveniles in the court system and the various budget reductions in the State	number of juveniles in the court system and the various budget reductions in the State	number of juveniles in the court system and the various budget reductions in the State	number of juveniles in the court system and the various budget reductions in the State	number of juveniles in the court system and the various budget reductions in the State	number of juveniles in the court system and the various budget reductions in the State
Department of Juvenile Justice.	Department of Juvenile Justice.				
The County receives grant funding through the Department of Criminal Justice Services for the	The County receives grant funding through the Department of Criminal Justice Services for the	The County receives grant funding through the Department of Criminal Justice Services for the	The County receives grant funding through the Department of Criminal Justice Services for the	The County receives grant funding through the Department of Criminal Justice Services for the	The County receives grant funding through the Department of Criminal Justice Services for the	The County receives grant funding through the Department of Criminal Justice Services for the
Victim Witness Program.					
As required, the County maintains a separate, restricted fund balance to account for revenues	As required, the County maintains a separate, restricted fund balance to account for revenues	As required, the County maintains a separate, restricted fund balance to account for revenues	As required, the County maintains a separate, restricted fund balance to account for revenues	As required, the County maintains a separate, restricted fund balance to account for revenues	As required, the County maintains a separate, restricted fund balance to account for revenues	As required, the County maintains a separate, restricted fund balance to account for revenues
and expenditures relating to the Commonwealth Attorney’s Asset Forfeiture program.	and expenditures relating to the Commonwealth Attorney’s Asset Forfeiture program.	and expenditures relating to the Commonwealth Attorney’s Asset Forfeiture program.	and expenditures relating to the Commonwealth Attorney’s Asset Forfeiture program.	and expenditures relating to the Commonwealth Attorney’s Asset Forfeiture program.	and expenditures relating to the Commonwealth Attorney’s Asset Forfeiture program.	This
budget includes the carry-over appropriation of fund balance to the Commonwealth Attorney.	budget includes the carry-over appropriation of fund balance to the Commonwealth Attorney.	budget includes the carry-over appropriation of fund balance to the Commonwealth Attorney.	budget includes the carry-over appropriation of fund balance to the Commonwealth Attorney.	budget includes the carry-over appropriation of fund balance to the Commonwealth Attorney.	budget includes the carry-over appropriation of fund balance to the Commonwealth Attorney.
The Commonwealth Attorney receives funding through the Department of Criminal Justice	The Commonwealth Attorney receives funding through the Department of Criminal Justice	The Commonwealth Attorney receives funding through the Department of Criminal Justice	The Commonwealth Attorney receives funding through the Department of Criminal Justice	The Commonwealth Attorney receives funding through the Department of Criminal Justice	The Commonwealth Attorney receives funding through the Department of Criminal Justice	The Commonwealth Attorney receives funding through the Department of Criminal Justice
Services for a 20-hour per week domestic violence prosecutor.	Services for a 20-hour per week domestic violence prosecutor.	Services for a 20-hour per week domestic violence prosecutor.	Services for a 20-hour per week domestic violence prosecutor.	Services for a 20-hour per week domestic violence prosecutor.	The amount received from this	The amount received from this
grant is estimated to be $23,981.	grant is estimated to be $23,981.				
		28			
