Climate Change in

Hampton Roads

Impacts and Stakeholder In

eholder

volvement

PEP10-02

February 2010

HAMPTON ROADS PLANNING DISTRICT COMMISSION



CHESAPEAKE

POQUOSON



AMAR DWARKANATH

*

J. RANDALL WHEELER



WILLIAM E. HARRELL



GORDON C. HELSEL, JR.



CLIFTON E. HAYES, JR.

*

ALAN P. KRASNOFF

PORTSMOUTH



ELLA P. WARD



KENNETH L. CHANDLER

*

DOUGLAS L. SMITH

FRANKLIN

*

JUNE FLEMING

SOUTHAMPTON COUNTY



ROSA M. LAWRENCE



ANITA T. FELTS

*

MICHAEL W. JOHNSON

GLOUCESTER COUNTY

*

BRENDA G. GARTON

SUFFOLK



GREGORY WOODARD

*

SELENA CUFFEE-GLENN





LINDA T. JOHNSON

HAMPTON





MARY BUNTING

SURRY COUNTY



ROSS A. KEARNEY

*

TYRONE W. FRANKLIN

*

MOLLY JOSEPH WARD



JOHN M. SEWARD





ISLE OF WIGHT COUNTY

VIRGINIA BEACH



W. DOUGLAS CASKEY



HARRY E. DIEZEL

*

STAN D. CLARK



ROBERT M. DYER





BARBARA M. HENLEY

JAMES CITY COUNTY



LOUIS R. JONES

*

BRUCE C. GOODSON

*

WILLIAM D. SESSOMS



SANFORD B. WANNER



JAMES K. SPORE





JOHN E. UHRIN

NEWPORT NEWS

*

JOE S. FRANK

WILLIAMSBURG



NEIL A. MORGAN



JACKSON C. TUTTLE, II



SHARON P. SCOTT

*

JEANNE ZEIDLER





NORFOLK

YORK COUNTY



ANTHONY L. BURFOOT

*

JAMES O. MCREYNOLDS

*

PAUL D. FRAIM



THOMAS G. SHEPPERD, JR.



DR. THERESA W. WHIBLEY





REGINA V.K. WILLIAMS





BARCLAY C. WINN

*EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBER



PROJECT STAFF



DWIGHT L. FARMER

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR/SECRETARY




JOHN M. CARLOCK

HRPDC DEPUTY EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

ERIC J. WALBERG

PHYSICAL & ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING ADMINISTRATOR

SARA J. KIDD

SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNER

BENJAMIN J. MCFARLANE

PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNER




FRANCES D. HUGHEY

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT




ROBERT C. JACOBS

GENERAL SERVICES MANAGER

MICHAEL R. LONG

ASSISTANT GENERAL SERVICES MANAGER

BRIAN MILLER

COMMUNICATIONS DESIGNER

CHRISTOPHER W. VAIGNEUR

REPROGRAPHIC COORDINATOR





CLIMATE CHANGE IN HAMPTON ROADS:

IMPACTS AND STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT





This report was funded, in part, by the Virginia Coastal Zone Management Program at the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality through Grant #NA08NOS4190466 of the U.S Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, under the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended.



The views expressed herein are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the U.S Department of Commerce, NOAA or any of its subagencies.



Federal financial assistance to this project amounted to $40,000, approximately 50% of the total cost.





Preparation of this report was included in the HRPDC Unified Planning Work Program for FY 2008 - 2009, approved by the Commission at its Executive Committee Meeting of March 19, 2008 and in the HRPDC Unified

Planning Work Program for FY 2009 - 2010, approved by the Commission at its Executive Committee Meeting of June 17, 2009.





Prepared by the staff of the

Hampton Roads Planning District Commission





FEBRUARY 2010





REPORT DOCUMENTATION



TITLE:

REPORT DATE

Climate Change in Hampton Roads:

February 2010

Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement



GRANT/SPONSORING AGENCY



DEQ/NOAA/LOCAL FUNDS




AUTHORS:

ORGANIZATION NAME,

Benjamin J. McFarlane

ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE

Eric J. Walberg, AICP

Hampton Roads Planning



District Commission



723 Woodlake Drive



Chesapeake, Virginia 23320



(757)420-8300



http://www.hrpdcva.gov



ABSTRACT

This report provides an overview of the potential impacts of climate change on the Hampton Roads region and describes various mitigation and adaptation strategies that can be taken to reduce and prevent damage from climate change impacts. The report contains seven major sections. The first two sections introduce climate change and describe its impacts. The third section provides a brief analysis of the impacts of climate change on Hampton Roads’ natural resources. The fourth section describes various strategies for mitigating and adapting to the impacts of climate change. The fifth section describes the efforts of other regions and cities to develop climate change strategies. The sixth section describes HRPDC efforts to involve local stakeholders, including developing a regional cooperative framework for addressing climate change. The final section describes lessons learned and next steps.





ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


This report was funded, in part, by the Virginia Coastal Zone Management Program at the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality through Grant #NA08NOS4190466 from the U.S.

Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, under the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended. The views expressed herein are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the U.S. Department of Commerce, NOAA, or any of its subagencies.



This report was prepared by the Hampton Roads Planning District Commission (HRPDC) staff in cooperation with the member localities. Preparation of this report was included in the HRPDC

Unified Planning Work Program for fiscal year 2008 – 2009, approved by the Commission at its Executive Committee Meeting of March 19, 2008, and in the HRPDC Unified Planning Work Program for fiscal year 2009 – 2010, approved by the Commission at its Executive Committee Meeting of June 17, 2009.

Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement TABLE OF CONTENTS

Table of Contents ................................................................................................................................... i

List of Figures ........................................................................................................................................ ii

Introduction ........................................................................................................................................... 1

What is Climate Change? ...................................................................................................................... 4

Climate Change Impacts ....................................................................................................................... 9

Analysis: Natural Resources Impacts in Hampton Roads .................................................................. 14

Responding to Climate Change .......................................................................................................... 28

Case Studies ......................................................................................................................................... 32

Stakeholder Involvement .................................................................................................................... 36

Conclusions and Recommendations .................................................................................................. 40

Works Cited ......................................................................................................................................... 42





About the cover: The front cover image was created using ESRI ArcMap and CorelDraw. It shows member localities of the Hampton Roads Planning District Commission in medium gray and the surrounding counties and cities from Maryland, North Carolina, and Virginia in light gray. The dark gray areas are Category 1 storm surge areas within the planning district.

i



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement LIST OF FIGURES

Figure 1: Hampton Roads, Virginia ....................................................................................................... 3

Figure 2: Historic Sea Level Rise at Sewell's Point Virginia, 1927-2006 .............................................. 6

Figure 3: Storm Surge in Hampton Roads ............................................................................................ 8

Figure 4: Initial Conditions Mobjack Bay, Virginia ............................................................................ 16

Figure 5: 39-cm (1.28 ft) Sea Level Rise by 2100 Mobjack Bay, Virginia ............................................ 17

Figure 6: 1-m (3.28 ft) Sea Level Rise by 2100 Mobjack Bay, Virginia ................................................ 18

Figure 7: Land Cover Loss and Change due to Sea Level Rise (SLR), Mobjack Bay, Virginia ........... 19

Figure 8: Initial Conditions South Hampton Roads, Virginia ........................................................... 20

Figure 9: 39-cm (1.28 ft) Sea Level Rise by 2100 South Hampton Roads, Virginia............................ 20

Figure 10: 1-m (3.28 ft) Sea Level Rise by 2100 South Hampton Roads, Virginia ............................... 21

Figure 11: Land Cover Loss and Change due to Sea Level Rise (SLR), South Hampton Roads, Virginia ................................................................................................................................................ 22

Figure 12: Storm Surge Inundation of Green Infrastructure in Hampton Roads .............................. 23

Figure 13: Initial Conditions, Virginia Beach, Virginia ...................................................................... 24

Figure 14: Conservation Corridors, Virginia Beach, Virginia ............................................................ 25

Figure 15: Hurricane Isabel flood risk, Virginia Beach, Virginia ........................................................ 25

Figure 16: Hurricane Isabel flood risk +0.5m SLR, Virginia Beach, Virginia ..................................... 26

Figure 17: Hurricane Isabel flood risk +1.0m SLR, Virginia Beach, Virginia ...................................... 26

Figure 18: Hurricane Isabel flood risk +1.5m SLR, Virginia Beach, Virginia ...................................... 27

Figure 19: Hurricane Isabel flood risk +2.0m SLR, Virginia Beach, Virginia ..................................... 27



ii



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement INTRODUCTION

Roads including inundation and flooding of

both developed and natural areas due to sea



level rise, increased impacts from severe

Climate change has become one of the

weather events and associated storm surge,

dominant news stories of the last decade.

and ecological damage to coastal and marine

Projections of temperature increases and

ecosystems due to temperature increase and

rising sea levels are made by scientific

loss of wetlands habitat. Many of these

organizations and researchers. Nations’

impacts are already occurring, and they will

representatives met in Copenhagen in

continue to increase over the next century.

Planning for climate

December 2009 to discuss what could be

Rising sea levels are of principle concern to

change now may help

done to mitigate climate change (Zeller,

the region (Fahrenthold, 2008). The full

mitigate its impacts

2009). These talks resulted in an accord that

extent of these impacts will not be realized

while also reducing

was seen as “a modest step” toward

for several decades at least; however, the root the costs of any

addressing climate change, but that did not

causes of climate change and the long lead

necessary adaptation.

contain firm targets for reductions of

times required to enact policy change or

greenhouse gas emissions. (Revkin & Broder, construct infrastructure demand a planning

2009) The agreement included commitments

response in the present. “While it is unlikely

to reduce emissions, help developing nations

Virginia will see drastic changes in the next

reduce emissions through clean energy, and

few years, advance planning is recommended,

provide aid to vulnerable countries for

given the scale of many adaptation efforts and

climate change adaptation. Organizations

the risks associated with being unprepared

such as the National Wildlife Foundation, the

for key impacts,” (Governor's Commission on

Pew Environmental Group, and the National

Climate Change, 2008). Planning for climate

Science Foundation have added to the

change now may help mitigate its impacts

research by governmental organizations such

while also reducing the costs of any necessary

as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate

adaptation. The focus of this document is on

Change and the U.S. Climate Change Science

identifying what the impacts of climate

Program. Their findings show that our

change are likely to be for the Hampton

climate is changing. The earth is warming at

Roads region, and developing a framework for

an increasing rate, and it is primarily due to

responding to climate change through

human activities such as the burning of fossil

regional cooperation.

fuels and the clearing of forests (Karl, Melillo,

& Peterson, 2009). Observations have shown Climate change will be one of the greatest

a significant increase in global average

challenges for Hampton Roads, the United

temperature over the last century. In

States, and the world to deal with over the

addition, global average sea level has

next century. Climate change is already

increased. Other significant observed changes

occurring and will continue to have large

include decreases in snow and icepacks,

impacts on populations around the world.

altered precipitation patterns, and a decrease

Responding to these impacts and their

in the frequency of cold days along with an

threatened increase will require both

increase in the frequency of hot days.

mitigation and adaptation. However, despite

Changes to local climates have occurred and

the possible dangers of climate change it also

are occurring across the globe.

presents an opportunity for positive change



and development. Wind energy development

Climate change will likely result in several

represents one such as yet untapped

significant adverse impacts on Hampton

opportunity for Hampton Roads, while the

1



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement expansion of existing modeling and simulation capabilities to climate change

impacts is an opportunity where the capacity

and ability already exist.



The report contains seven major sections. The

first section describes climate change in

general terms. The second section describes

the impacts of climate change on the

Hampton Roads region and to specific

sectors. The third section provides a basic

analysis of the impacts of climate change on a

specific sector, natural resources. The fourth

section describes various strategies for

mitigating and adapting to the impacts of

climate change. The fifth section describes

the attempts of other regions and cities to

develop climate change strategies. The sixth

section describes efforts undertaken by

HRPDC to involve local stakeholders in

planning for climate change. The final section

describes future steps for the project and for

regional action.



2





ent

3

pacts and Stakeholder Involvem

pton Roads, Virginia

am

re 1: H

pton Roads: Im

gu

am

Fi

hange in H

ate C

limC

ission m

n Roads Planning

Created by the

pto

istrict Com

am

D

H



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement WHAT IS CLIMATE CHANGE?

affected climate over the last half-century.

The increase in emissions of greenhouse gases



into the atmosphere through human

To understand how climate change impacts

activities such as the burning of fossil fuels, human society requires an understanding of

agriculture, and industrial processes has been

what climate is and how it affects people and

documented (Karl, Melillo, & Peterson, 2009).

environments. “Climate is the weather of a

The main greenhouse gases climate scientists

particular region, averaged over a long period

analyze are carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous

“Climate is the

of time,” and includes things such as the

oxide, halocarbons, ozone, and water vapor.

weather of a

temperature, precipitation, and wind

Carbon dioxide is considered to be the major

particular region,

(National Science Foundation, 2009).

contributor because of its sheer quantity,

Weather varies from day to day, month to

averaged over a long

even though other greenhouse gases have a

month, and year to year. Climate averages the

period of time.”

larger per-unit effect on atmospheric

weather over many years to describe the

temperature. Water vapor is recognized as

- National Science

general character of a region. Knowing these

the most potent greenhouse gas, but human

Foundation

past trends guides understanding of when

activities do not cause much of an increase.

seasons occur and how warm or cold they are. Instead, temperature increases resulting from A region’s climate has broad impacts on many other greenhouse gas emissions result in of the human and natural activities that occur more water vapor because warmer air holds

within its boundaries. Plant and animal

more moisture, creating a warming

species can survive only in a specific range for “feedback loop,” (Karl, Melillo, & Peterson, which they have adapted over many years. As

2009). Other human influences on climate

climate changes those species will either have

include the use of aerosols and changes in

to move to a more suitable climate or become

land cover to urban development and

extinct. The greenhouse effect is one of the

agriculture. Other natural influences on

main drivers of life on earth – it allows for life climate include the change of the Earth’s

to exist in its present form. It is caused by the orbit around the Sun and volcanic eruptions.

presence of various heat-trapping gases such



as carbon dioxide and water vapor in the

The impacts of global warming will depend

atmosphere. These gases are naturally present on its extent. This extent will be determined in the atmosphere, but their quantities have by the quantity of greenhouse gases emitted

significantly increased since the mid-1700s,

and how long those emissions are continued.

mainly due to human activity. This increase

Warming will increase global average sea

in greenhouse (or heat-trapping) gases will

level due to a combination of thermal

change Earth’s climate more quickly and to a

expansion, melting glaciers, and melting ice

greater extent than would otherwise occur

sheets. Precipitation patterns will change.

(Karl, Melillo, & Peterson, 2009).

The distribution of rainfall throughout the



year will also change; rainfall will be more

Different organizations use different

concentrated as heavy storm events are

definitions of climate change. The IPCC

punctuated by periods of drought. Average

defines climate change as “any change in

temperature will increase, but so will the

climate over time, whether due to natural

number and temperature of extremely hot

variability or as a result of human activity,”

days. Changes in temperature, water

(IPCC, 2007). While natural factors influence

availability, and water salinity will also force climate most of the focus has been on human

changes in terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.

influences and how they have increasingly



4



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Climate change will have effects that will impacts on human health and the built

occur in the short, medium, and long

environment. In addition to average

timeframes. Changes may be gradual early on

increases, increases in maximum observed

and more stark later. In addition, impacts

temperatures are also expected. Heat waves

may not necessarily be observed in a linear

are also likely to be more frequent and to last fashion; some impacts of climate change may

longer. The Governor’s Commission on

grow significantly more intense as thresholds

Climate Change projected an average

are crossed. The main effect of greenhouse

temperature increase of 3.1°C (5.6°F) for

gas emissions will be to increase global

Virginia during the 21st century (Governor's

Even though some

average temperatures. This temperature

Commission on Climate Change, 2008).

climate change can

increase will in turn lead to secondary effects

still be mitigated,

such as altered precipitation patterns and sea

CHANGING PRECIPITATION PATTERNS

some adaptation will

level rise. Another effect of climate change

Rising temperatures have the potential to

be required.

may be more intense storms, including

radically alter historic precipitation patterns, tropical storms. Storm surge will increase as

affecting human settlements and the natural

well due to a combination of sea level rise and environment at all scales (global, national, stronger storms (Karl, Melillo, & Peterson, and local). Droughts are likely to increase

2009). Some of these effects may be blunted

in frequency, intensity, and duration

by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and

(Karl, Melillo, & Peterson, 2009). At the thus mitigating some climate change, but

same time, storm events are expected to

most will still be felt to some extent. Many of increase in intensity, bringing larger

the impacts of climate change will not be felt

quantities of rainfall with the same or

for some time; these effects will lag behind

fewer storm events. Stronger storms that their causes. Additionally, many effects will

bring more rain will also have the potential to persist for years even if their causes are

cause more damage due to winds and

eliminated. Even though some climate

flooding. More intense hurricanes and

change can still be mitigated, some

nor’easters will bring higher wind speeds,

adaptation will be required at some point.

more rainfall, and increased storm surge, all



of which will be exacerbated by sea level rise.

RISING TEMPERATURES

In addition, larger rainfall events will result in Greenhouse gas emissions are causing global

more runoff and its resulting impacts on

temperatures to rise. Higher temperatures

waterways. More rainfall will have both

have already been observed, and the rate of

benefits and costs for the region, depending

increase is expected to grow. Since 1900

on how its frequency is altered. The

global average temperature has increased by

Governor’s Commission on Climate Change,

approximately 1.5°F, but by 2100 it is projected using the same scenario as for temperature to increase by an additional 2 to 11.5°F (Karl, increases, projected for Virginia an overall

Melillo, & Peterson, 2009). The United States precipitation increase of 11% by 2100

Global Change Research Program estimates

(Governor's Commission on Climate Change,

that temperatures in the Northeastern United

2008).

States will increase by 2.5 to 4.5°F in winter



and 1.5 to 3.5°F in summer, while

SEA LEVEL RISE

Southeastern states will see increases of

Global sea level rises due to increases in the

4.5 to 9°F (Karl, Melillo, & Peterson, 2009).

volume and quantity (or mass) of water in the

Average temperature increases will result in

world’s oceans. Rising temperatures cause

stress placed on ecosystems and a variety of

5





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement water to increase in volume due to thermal Land subsidence is a significant factor in

expansion (CCSP, 2009). Sea level rise caused

the rate of sea level rise in Hampton

by an increase in volume is referred to as

Roads (CCSP, 2009). Several factors steric sea level rise. Rising temperatures also contribute to land subsidence within the

cause more ice and snow to melt, adding to

region. First, Hampton Roads is located on a

the total amount of liquid water in the

passive continental margin, the trailing edge

oceans; this is referred to as a eustatic

of a tectonic plate that is creating gradual

increase. Both steric and eustatic sea level rise subsidence of the land (Boon, Sea Coast and

are global phenomena. Sea level rise can be

Sea Level Trends, 2004). In addition, several

affected locally by other factors such as land

isostatic processes are at work. The second

subsidence. Subsidence can be caused by

factor is isostatic rebound, which is the result sediment compaction or extraction of

of the retreat of glaciers following the end of subsurface liquids like water or oil. Because of the last ice age. In the northern hemisphere

this local variation scientists refer to both

this phenomenon has caused land areas in

global and relative sea level rise. Global sea northern latitudes that were once covered in

level rise includes both steric and eustatic ice to rise in elevation as the ice has melted.

factors. Relative sea level rise adds

To the south of the previously ice-covered

regional factors such as land elevation

areas, land that was once bowed upward by

changes, winds, and currents. Global sea the weight of the ice to the north is now

level rise is now projected to be between 3

gradually subsiding as the bowing in the

and 4 feet by 2100, under higher emissions

earth’s crust is relieved. A third factor is the scenarios (Karl, Melillo, & Peterson, 2009).

removal of groundwater from aquifers under

This is greater than the level stated by the

the region. As the water is removed for

IPCC, which was 8 inches to 2 feet, for two

drinking water and other uses the aquifers

reasons: more is now known about ice sheet

compress slightly, further contributing to

dynamics (which were not factored into the

subsidence. The rate of subsidence varies

IPCC’s calculations at the time), and observed

across the Hampton Roads region. In

emissions have been higher than predicted by

general, land subsidence accounts for

the IPCC.

between one-third and one-half of the



observed sea level rise in the region. The Figure 2: Historic Sea Level Rise at Sewell's Point, Virginia, 1927-2006

Source: (NOAA, 2008)

6



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement remaining component in sea level rise in the environments. The combined impacts of

region is the result of a combination of the

sea level rise and increased storm

global phenomenon of thermal expansion of

strength are arguably the most

sea water and polar ice melt associated with

threatening effects of climate change to

climate change.

the Hampton Roads region. The region is

already vulnerable to hurricanes and other

Hampton Roads experienced sea level

serious weather events (Figure 3). Higher sea

rise of 4.44 mm per year (+/- 0.27 mm/yr)

level will result in more areas being

for the period from 1927 to 2006 (Figure 2). vulnerable to storm surges. Flooding may This translates to 1.46 feet of sea level rise increase in frequency and severity. Regional

over 100 years (NOAA, 2008). This measure infrastructure such as roads and utilities will is based on the Sewell’s Point tide gauge at

be at risk of damage or temporary

the mouth of the Elizabeth River. This change

incapacitation due to storm events, and

has made the region more vulnerable to

permanent incapacitation due to sea level rise

storm surge flooding over time. Accurate

induced flooding. Flood zones may increase

prediction of future sea level rise rates is

in size, putting more buildings and

problematic, a fact that is openly

infrastructure at risk. Industries that rely on acknowledged within the scientific

access to the water or infrastructure in coastal community. Several factors contribute to this

areas may also be harmed. Climate change

difficulty including unknown future

may hold particular risks for military

greenhouse gas emission rates, incomplete

infrastructure, since a good portion of the

understanding of ice melt dynamics and

region’s military facilities are on or near the possible future changes in ocean circulation

coast at lower elevations. These risks to the

patterns. To deal with this uncertainty most

built environment will have to be accounted

predictions of future sea level rise are given as for in future planning efforts.

ranges. As an example the 2009 report titled



Global Climate Change Impacts in the United



States references sea level rise ranges

associated with three different IPCC emission

scenarios and more recent estimates of global

sea level rise that substantially exceed the

IPCC estimates (Karl, Melillo, & Peterson,

2009). At the low end of the scale, the IPCC

lower emission scenario predicts between 0.6

and 1.3 feet of global sea level rise by 2100. At the high end of the scale are more recent

estimates that suggest between 3 and 4 feet of

global sea level rise by 2100. Regardless of

which projected trend is most accurate, for

Hampton Roads the effects of global sea level

rise will be exacerbated by local land

subsidence.



Sea level rise and the increased frequency of

intense storms will have serious impacts on

Hampton Roads’ built and natural

7





ent

8

pton Roads

am

pacts and Stakeholder Involvem

ge in H

Sur

pton Roads: Im

am

re 3: StormguFi

hange in H

ate C

limC

ent

anagem

ergency M

ent of Em

epartm

irginia D

the V

ission m

surge data obtained from

Created by the

pton Roads Planning

Storm

istrict Com

am

D



H



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement CLIMATE CHANGE IMPACTS

VULNERABILITY AND RISK

The impacts of climate change will not be felt



uniformly across the world. Determining

The last section focused on the causes of

what the likely impacts will be is one of the

climate change and its predicted effects. This

first steps in successfully adapting to climate section will look more closely at the impacts

change (Snover, et al., 2007). The impacts of

of climate change, with a focus on Hampton

climate change will depend on several

Roads. Impacts will be the result of

interrelated, local characteristics, including

interactions between effects such as higher

Climate change may

risk, sensitivity, and vulnerability.

temperatures and sea level rise on various

“exacerbate threats



sectors of the human and natural

Risk is a combination of an event’s likelihood already faced by

environments such as built infrastructure,

and its consequence (Deltacommissie, 2008).

Virginia ecosystems.”

human health, and ecological systems.

Consequence in this case refers to the

- Governor’s



impacts or effects of an occurrence (i.e. what

Commission on

The Chesapeake Bay is a sensitive

could happen or how much damage could

Climate Change

environmental system that will experience

result). Reducing either factor reduces total

significant changes due to climate change,

risk; alternately, increasing either increases

including increases in temperature and

risk. An example of reducing the probability

salinity. More intense storms and greater

of an event is the construction of a levee to

stream flow will increase erosion of coastal

prevent flooding. Reducing the consequences

land formations. Increases in water

of that flooding could involve moving

temperature and salinity will affect species

buildings out of the flood zone.

composition and populations, causing



important Bay species to decline or disappear. Sensitivity is the degree to which a Wetlands, marshes, and other ecologically community is affected by an occurrence

significant ecosystems will also be severely

(Snover, et al., 2007). A low-lying community

affected by climate change; rising sea level

is sensitive to sea level rise because that could combined with urban development may

result in flooding or inundation of important

result in the destruction of these areas if they areas. Climate change will likely increase the

cannot migrate to higher elevations. Climate

region’s sensitivity to storm events.

change may also “exacerbate threats already



faced by Virginia ecosystems, such as invasive

Vulnerability is a combination of sensitivity species, pathogens, and pollution,”

and adaptive capacity (Snover, et al., 2007).

(Governor's Commission on Climate Change,

These combined with risk provide an

2008). Infrastructure and populations in

assessment of how a natural hazard might

Hampton Roads are also at risk from the

affect a community. Adaptive capacity refers

effects of climate change. Large populations

to an area’s ability to adapt to changing

live in areas already subject to flooding

circumstances. It can also refer to a

during storm events; those areas will be even

community’s resilience, or ability to recover

more vulnerable as climate change occurs.

quickly with minimal lasting damage from an

Similarly, many important or critical facilities event. Areas where hazards occur more often

or infrastructures are in areas that will be

that have high sensitivity and low adaptive

increasingly subject to flooding or

capacity are consequently more vulnerable to

inundation.

those hazards.





9



Hampton Roads is

one of the most

vulnerable regions in

the world.

Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Using these terms to describe Hampton factor), a higher sea level means that the

Roads provides a good general analysis of why potential for devastating flooding will be the region needs to address the threats of higher. Increased risk of flooding will also

climate change. Climate change increases the

have an impact on property owners through

probability of flooding or strong storms,

the insurance industry, as premiums rise or

while existing development patterns increase

availability declines (Governor's Commission

the consequences of those events. The region

on Climate Change, 2008).

lies near sea level and depends on the ocean



for much of its economy, resulting in a high

Rising waters may inundate or periodically

degree of sensitivity. Currently the region is

flood both property and infrastructure,

also very vulnerable to climate change

causing its loss and requiring its removal. The because of its infrastructure and building

Hampton Roads region is particularly

patterns. This region will be sensitive to

vulnerable because of its highly dense

weather and flooding because of its

population pattern near the shore (CCSP,

geography. Responding to climate change

2009). The Virginia Beach-Norfolk

should involve addressing potential impacts

Metropolitan Statistical Area is one of the

through the reduction of risk and

most vulnerable areas in the world; it is the

vulnerability.

10th largest coastal metropolitan area in terms

of assets exposed (Governor's Commission on

BUILT ENVIRONMENT

Climate Change, 2008). Specific areas of the

Climate change will have significant effects

region at risk due to sea level rise or flooding on the built environment. Stronger storms

from storms include the eastern part of the

with higher wind speeds will cause greater

Peninsula and the Elizabeth River and North

amounts of damage to structures. Storms

Landing River watersheds. The number of

already pose significant risks to Hampton

nationally, regionally, or locally important

Roads’ private property and public

structures, facilities, and systems at risk is

infrastructure, and climate change will likely

large. Critical infrastructure such as

only increase that risk (Karl, Melillo, &

roadways, railways, and utilities are in

Peterson, 2009). Recent storm events have

vulnerable areas. A study by the U.S.

only confirmed how vulnerable the region is

Department of Transportation analyzed the

to flooding. One potential consequence of

impacts of sea level rise on transportation

more intense storms combined with sea level

infrastructure due to inundation and storm

rise is that future storms could cause greater

surge flooding (Wright & Hogan, 2008).

damage without being as strong, or that

Important transportation infrastructure in

stronger storms could cause substantially

Hampton Roads that is vulnerable to sea level

more damage. Hurricane Isabel, as an

rise includes the Interstate 64 Hampton

example, caused a similar level of flooding as

Roads Bridge Tunnel. A number of military

the August 1933, which was the region’s

installations, including Naval Station Norfolk, “storm of the century,” (Boon, The Three

Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek – Fort

Faces of Isabel: Storm Surge, Storm Tide, and

Story, Joint Base Langley-Eustis, Fort Monroe,

Sea Level Rise, 2003). That risk will increase

Naval Weapons Station Yorktown, Naval

both in consequence and in frequency.

Shipyard Norfolk, and others are also in

Though sea level rise is not the only

vulnerable areas (Governor's Commission on

contributor to a hurricane or other storm’s

Climate Change, 2008).

surge (when a storm occurs during lunar and



astronomic tidal cycles is another significant



10



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement NATURAL ENVIRONMENT

Negative impacts on the environment will

Climate change will have a number of

result in the loss or transition of important

impacts on the natural environment. These

landforms and ecosystems. Sea level rise will

impacts can be divided into those that affect

inundate some wetlands, resulting in marsh

plant and animal species and those that affect

drowning and the transition of those areas to

landforms.

open water (Jasinski & Claggett, 2009). Sea

level rise and stronger storms will result in

Plants and animals will be threatened by

significant shoreline erosion, further resulting Climate change will

climate change’s impacts of increased

in the drowning of wetlands (Karl, Melillo, & temperatures as well as the changes in

Peterson, 2009). In some cases ecological

exacerbate many of

environments it causes. Many species are

thresholds will be crossed as triggering events the negative impacts

highly sensitive to climate conditions such as

such as storms breach barrier islands. Such

already affecting

temperature, salinity, and CO

events would cause rapid ecosystem change

2

important ecological

concentrations, and changes to those

and loss of coastal landforms. Large storm

areas.

conditions could alter population balances in

events could, with sea level rise, have greater the Bay. While increased CO

potential to change the coast by destroying

2 in the

atmosphere may encourage plant growth,

already fragile barrier islands or other

heat stress may cause it to decline. Wetlands

sensitive coastal landforms. Where possible

plants will be drowned due to floodwaters or

landforms such as coastal wetlands may

sea level rise. CO

migrate inland if change is gradual enough;

2 deposition will result in

ocean acidification, which can reduce the

however, in more urban areas like much of

ability of corals and oysters to survive (Karl, Hampton Roads that migration is prevented

Melillo, & Peterson, 2009). Additionally,

by development or infrastructure. This will

higher temperatures will lead to lower levels

result in further destruction of wetlands

of dissolved oxygen, which will reduce the

(Pyke, et al., 2008). Climate change will thus

capacity of aquatic environments to support

exacerbate many of the negative impacts

life. This could have a significant effect on

already affecting important ecological areas.

several important species in the Chesapeake



Bay, including blue crabs, eel grass, and

WATER SUPPLY

oysters, causing species shift or potentially

Climate change will have significant effects

extinction (Governor's Commission on

on water resources in Hampton Roads and

Climate Change, 2008). Water quality will be

around the world. Warming weather will

negatively affected by climate change.

cause changes in the frequency and volume of

Increased stream flow from more intense

precipitation, the frequency and length of

rainfall events will increase concentrations of droughts, changes in the timing of spring

sediments and nutrient pollutants in the

snow melt, higher rates of evaporation, and

Chesapeake Bay and its contributing

increases in water temperatures (Karl,

waterways (Pyke, et al., 2008). In addition,

Melillo, & Peterson, 2009). Exactly how the climate change could deprive some species of

regional water supply of Hampton Roads will

nursery or nesting habitats; wetlands that are

be affected is unclear. Higher temperatures

important for migrating waterfowl could also

will likely lead to greater evaporation of

disappear, negatively affecting those species

surface water sources, including shallow

(Jasinski & Claggett, 2009). Climate change reservoirs, leading to reduced supplies. While

could also encourage the spread of marine

annual precipitation will likely increase in the diseases and invasive species.

region, it will likely occur in more



concentrated bursts, with longer periods of

11



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement drought in between large storm events (Karl, of the region. The military has several

Melillo, & Peterson, 2009). Greater

installations that will be more vulnerable to

concentration of preciptation during storm

sea level rise and are already vulnerable to

events will cause increases in stream flow,

storm surge flooding. Loss of these

while longer dry periods between storms may

installations and the transfer of their

result in reduced stream flow. Greater

personnel to other areas of the country would

demand for water for irrigation may also

result in the loss of many jobs and supporting

result from higher temperatures and longer

industries in the area. The Port of Virginia

Climate change may

periods of drought. Increased demand for air

and related industries will also be affected by change conditions to

conditioning will also stress water supplies, as climate change. Port and shipbuilding

the extent that water

power plants use more water for cooling.

infrastructure may be inundated or

resources planning

Longer periods without rainfall will stress

periodically flooded, resulting in work

can no longer use

water resources. Larger rainfall events may

stoppages or the removal of these facilities

data from the past as

also stress water storage capacity with

entirely. Replacement costs for any of these

a guide to the future

potential consequences for water supply

facilities would be very high. Additionally,

infrastructure such as dams and reservoirs.

increases in storm occurrences may result in

availability of water.

Climate change may change conditions to the

higher insurance costs for infrastructure,

extent that water resources planning can no

homes, and businesses, potentially leading to

longer use data from the past as a guide to

lower rates of economic development and

the future availability of water (Karl, Melillo, growth.

& Peterson, 2009).




While climate change will pose many serious

Climate Change will also have water quality

challenges for the region, mitigating and

impacts. Greater precipitation intensity will

adapting to climate change will offer

likely increase runoff, which will decrease

Hampton Roads several opportunities for

surface water quality. More runoff will carry

economic development. Hampton Roads is

more pollution to the Chesapeake Bay,

well suited for two such opportunities in

leading to algae blooms and higher bacteria

particular. The development of wind energy

populations (Karl, Melillo, & Peterson, 2009).

will be important to reducing greenhouse

Greater periods of drought will reduce the

gases and offshore wind will be a significant

quality of drinking water supplies. Sea level

resource to develop. An area with category 5

rise will also increase the reach of salt water and 6 (high potential for wind energy) winds

into freshwater surface waters as well as

lies offshore of Virginia Beach. In addition to coastal aquifers, due to increasing

being an ideal location for wind energy

evaporation and plant water loss rates (Karl,

generation, Hampton Roads has some assets

Melillo, & Peterson, 2009). This may force

that could serve to make the region a hub of

localities to use desalination in more

logistical support, including a deep water port instances.

and developed industrial capacity, which



could help the region take advantage of

ECONOMY

offshore wind energy development elsewhere

The Hampton Roads regional economy is

along the Atlantic coast. Hampton Roads also

heavily dependent on several industries

has a developing modeling and simulation

related to the ocean. These include tourism,

industry with institutions such as the Virginia the military, and the Port of Virginia. Tourism Modeling, Analysis and Simulation Center in along the oceanfront is a large factor in the Suffolk (part of Old Dominion University in

Virginia Beach economy that affects the rest

Norfolk) and the Virginia Institute of Marine

12



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Science in Gloucester. VIMS is already research in this area of climate change

working on modeling the impacts of climate

impacts is not as developed as that for the

change, and VMASC could apply some of its

weather and environmental effects, it is likely capabilities in that direction.

that human communities will be affected by



climate change. Those affected by climate

HUMAN HEALTH AND SOCIETY

change could potentially include watermen,

Climate change may have negative effects on

farmers, shoreline property owners, coastal

human health in the region; however, these

governments, residents, and tourists. Possible

effects will probably be slow to occur and will effects of climate change include: damage to

thus afford the region the chance to

coastal infrastructure, increased risk of

effectively plan and respond. More intense

disease from insects, changes to renewable

storms will have the potential to cause injury

and sustainable resources, loss of cultural

and death to Hampton Roads residents, as

resources and values, and changes in species

well as property damage. Storms could also

abundance and spread. The costs of climate

interfere with food and water supplies.

change could include greater funding of flood

Warmer weather may lead to more diseases

control measures, losses to agricultural

in the region that are currently found in more

production, reduced water supplies (or

southern areas. Illnesses and deaths due to

shifting reliance to more expensive sources),

hotter weather may also increase, though

impacts to forestry operations, greater

some of this will be offset by a decrease in

seasonal energy usage, lost recreational

injuries and deaths due to cold weather (Karl,

opportunities, and reduced fisheries stocks.

Melillo, & Peterson, 2009). Diseases

Reduced availability of insurance in areas

associated with air pollution may also

exposed to storms and flooding will be one

increase as the result of climate change. In

consequence of climate change that will affect

addition to those effects, many populations in

some Hampton Roads residents (Karl,

Hampton Roads will be particularly

Melillo, & Peterson, 2009). Possible responses vulnerable to climate change. Lower-income

to these impacts could include stormwater

individuals may not have the resources to

management, urban stream restoration,

prepare themselves in advance for these

fishery management, and incorporating

changes or to respond when storms or

climate assumptions into building and

warmer weather occur. Racial and ethnic

planning practices (Pyke, et al., 2008).

minorities, children, and the elderly are all



more vulnerable. Populations living in coastal




areas and floodplains, of which there are

many in the Hampton Roads region, will also

be much more vulnerable to sea level rise,

storm events, and some diseases than others.

Changes in weather patterns, particularly the

increase in heavy rainfall events, may cause

an increase in waterborne diseases (Karl,

Melillo, & Peterson, 2009).



Climate change will also impact humans

culturally, socially, and economically. Climate change will change the quality of life for

people in Hampton Roads. Though the

13



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement ANALYSIS: NATURAL RESOURCES

acres of green infrastructure in all three

IMPACTS IN HAMPTON ROADS

categories.




However, natural resources such as the

The previous two sections discussed the

regional green infrastructure network are

effects of climate change and what impacts

increasingly coming under threat from

they will have on various sectors. Once the

climate change. Temperature increases, sea

types of impacts are identified it is important level rise, and stronger storm behavior all

Sea level rise and the

to assess the quantity and quality of those

negatively affect valuable natural resources.

increased storm surge

impacts. This sort of analysis requires

In addition, climate change will exacerbate

that accompanies it

information on both the extent of impacts as

other stressors such as land development,

will have a profound

well as the affected sector(s). For Hampton

fertilizer use, and increases in human

effect on the region’s

Roads much of this data is unavailable at this

population (Jasinski & Claggett, 2009). In

natural resources.

time, but considerable work has been done

addition, the Chesapeake Bay region is more

cataloging the region’s natural resources

vulnerable to sea level rise than most places

through a series of regional green

because of a combination of flat topography

infrastructure assessments and plans. A basic

and extensive development (Glick, Clough, & analysis has been conducted using the

Nunley, 2008). In some areas of the Bay,

available data to begin the process of

including Hampton Roads, land subsidence

analyzing the impacts of climate change on

further increases vulnerability to sea level

the region. Information on these impacts has

rise. Since much of Hampton Roads’ green

also been collected from other sources to

infrastructure lies along the coast, sea level

complement the analysis.

rise and the increased storm surge that



accompanies it will have a profound effect on

Natural resources provide a wealth of

the region’s natural resources and its ability

benefits, including ecological services such as to maintain and preserve those resources into

water quality enhancement and wildlife

the future.

habitat, as well as recreational value.



Protecting, preserving, and enhancing the

Research by organizations such as the U.S.

natural resources of Hampton Roads is vital

Global Change Research Program and the

to sustaining its natural environment as well

National Wildlife Federation (NWF) has

as its quality of life. To this end, several

described the potential impacts of climate

regional efforts have aimed to identify those

change on natural resources. Expected

areas that should be protected and to develop

changes include reduced populations of plant

policies that achieve that goal. These efforts

and animal species, shifts in species habitats, have included the Southern Watershed Area

inundation of low-lying areas, increased

Management Program and the Hampton

turbidity and nutrient content of water

Roads Conservation Corridor Study (HRPDC,

bodies, and erosion of coastal and riparian

2007). Through these projects a regional

areas (CCSP, 2009). Inundation of wetlands

green infrastructure network was identified.

increases the salinity of the ecosystem and

This green infrastructure consists of areas

can also infiltrate groundwater aquifers,

that are valuable for natural habitat,

which can reduce species diversity (Glick,

water quality, or both that are linked

Clough, & Nunley, 2008). Sea level rise will together through a network of corridors.

also increase the vulnerability of coastal areas The most recent version of the regional green

to storm surge.

infrastructure network includes over 500,000



14



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement In some cases wetland migration inland will Gloucester County and the Peninsula (Figure

occur as a natural response to sea level rise,

4) and South Hampton Roads (Figure 8). The

but often this will be prevented by

model predicts different impacts for these

development or hard flood protection

areas. In the Mobjack Bay area, undeveloped

systems. Protecting upland buffers from

dry land declines by 13% under the A1B-Mean

development can reduce wetlands loss further scenario (Figure 5), and by 19% under 1 meter down the road (Glick, Clough, & Nunley, of sea level rise (Figure 6), with much of this 2008). In some cases new wetlands may also

occurring in Eastern Hampton and

be created through accretion as sea level rises Gloucester (Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008).

and inundates low-lying coastal areas.

Other impacts predicted for the area include



soil saturation, conversion of brackish marsh

The National Wildlife Federation performed a

to salt marsh, and conversion of dry land to

sea level rise impact analysis of the

transitional marsh. The study assumed that

Chesapeake Bay region and Delaware Bay in

developed lands would be protected from sea

2008. The model used, the Sea Level Affecting

level rise for this scenario. The scenario does Marshes Model (SLAMM), considered five

not predict or account for any increase in

processes caused by sea level rise: inundation, developed land.

erosion, overwash, saturation, and salinity



(Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008). Scenarios

The South Hampton Roads coastal area is

used were taken from or based on those

similarly affected. In both cases a significant designed by the IPCC. Additional scenarios

part of the area is already developed. (The

were run based on sea level rise of 1 meter, 1.5

same assumptions concerning developed land

meters, and 2 meters. In this case sea level

are maintained for this analysis as well.)

rise refers to eustatic global sea level rise. Two Undeveloped dry lands are predicted to scenarios are of particular use here. The decrease by 16% under the A1B-Mean scenario

Governor’s Commission on Climate Change

(Figure 9) and by 22% under a 1-meter rise in

referenced the A1B scenario (0.39m of sea

sea level (Figure 10). Tidal flats and tidal

level rise) in its description of climate change swamps are also predicted to experience

impacts on the Commonwealth. The model

significant losses in the area. Some

showed significant impacts across the entire

environments such as saltmarshes are

study area. In the A1B-Maximum scenario

expected to experience significant increases.

(0.69m of sea level rise), tidal marsh area

Ocean beach is expected to decline

declines by 36%. 57% of the Chesapeake Bay

significantly, though the analysis does not

region’s tidal swamps also disappear by 2100.

allow for artificial beach renourishment

In addition, 4%, or over 400,000 acres, of

(Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008). A significant coastal land is also lost through inundation or inland area of Virginia Beach will be

erosion. These losses and others through sea

threatened because of the reach of the North

level rise and climate change have the

Landing River, which will be subject to

potential to form a “completely different

increased tidal flooding (lower right area of

Chesapeake Bay region,” with different land

Figures 9 and 10).

forms, flora, and fauna (Glick, Clough, &



Nunley, 2008).

In order to assess the potential impact of sea



level rise on ecologically important areas of

NWF also ran the model for several subareas

the region a GIS analysis was performed on

of the Chesapeake Bay region, including two

the regional green infrastructure network.

in Hampton Roads: Mobjack Bay between

The green infrastructure network consists of

15





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Figure 4: Initial Conditions Mobjack Bay, Virginia




(Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008)



16





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Figure 5: 39-cm (1.28 ft) Sea Level Rise by 2100

Mobjack Bay, Virginia




(Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008)



17





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Figure 6: 1-m (3.28 ft) Sea Level Rise by 2100

Mobjack Bay, Virginia




(Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008)



18



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Figure 7: Land Cover Loss and Change due to Sea Level Rise (SLR), Mobjack Bay, Virginia Terrain % of Initial

Initial Cond.

39-cm (1.28 ft) 39-cm (1.28 ft) 1-m (3.28 ft) Cond.

(acres)

SLR (acres)

SLR % Change

SLR % Change

Dry Land

39.8%

266,182

232,393

-13%

-19%

Developed

5.1%

33,893

33,893

0%

0%

Swamp

5.5%

37,019

54,902

48%

26%

Cypress Swamp

0.0%

17

17

0%

0%

Inland Fresh

Marsh

0.2%

1,562

1,569

0%

-6%

Tidal Fresh

Marsh

0.1%

709

724

2%

-13%

Transitional

Marsh

0.2%

1,028

3,257

217%

1,015%

Irregularly

Flooded Marsh

3.5%

23,747

16,502

-31%

-80%

Saltmarsh

0.1%

487

14,466

2,872%

1,621%

Estuarine

Beach

0.1%

655

2,399

266%

479%

Tidal Flat

0.9%

6,296

336

-95%

-74%

Ocean Beach

0.0%

0

0

N/A

N/A

Inland Open

Water

0.6%

3,788

3,872

2%

1%

Estuarine Open

Water

43.0%

287,962

300,253

4%

17%

Open Ocean

0.0%

0

0

N/A

N/A

Inland Shore

0.0%

5

5

0%

-8%

Tidal Swamp

0.8%

5,582

4,389

-21%

-67%

Rocky Intertidal

0.0%

0

0

N/A

N/A

Riverine Tidal

0.0%

225

175

-22%

-41%

Tidal Creek

0.0%

0

0

N/A

N/A

(Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008)



19





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Figure 8: Initial Conditions South Hampton Roads, Virginia




(Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008)



Figure 9: 39-cm (1.28 ft) Sea Level Rise by 2100

South Hampton Roads, Virginia




(Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008)



20





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Figure 10: 1-m (3.28 ft) Sea Level Rise by 2100

South Hampton Roads, Virginia




(Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008)




21



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Figure 11: Land Cover Loss and Change due to Sea Level Rise (SLR), South Hampton Roads, Virginia Terrain

% of Initial

Initial Cond.

39-cm (1.28 ft) 39-cm (1.28 ft) 1-m (3.28 ft) Cond.

(acres)

SLR (acres)

SLR % Change

SLR % Change



Dry Land

29.5%

143,373

120,578

-16%

-22%

Developed

15.1%

73,373

73,373

0%

0%

Swamp

9.5%

46,028

51,818

13%

10%

Cypress Swamp

0.1%

546

544

0%

0%

Inland Fresh

0.3%

4%

-5%

Marsh

1,554

1,621

Tidal Fresh

0.0%

-27%

-52%

Marsh

111

82

Transitional

0.0%

1,557%

1,882%

Marsh

217

3,603

Irregularly

1.5%

11%

-54%

Flooded Marsh

7,497

8,335

Saltmarsh

0.0%

40

9,232

23,250%

16,560%

Estuarine

0.1%

275%

396%

Beach

408

1,530

Tidal Flat

0.6%

2,745

539

-80%

32%

Ocean Beach

0.1%

274

77

-72%

-96%

Inland Open

1.1%

-5%

-7%

Water

5,132

4,861

Estuarine Open

26.1%

5%

16%

Water

126,745

133,037

Open Ocean

14.1%

68,335

73,660

8%

8%

Inland Shore

0.5%

2,204

1,275

-42%

-57%

Tidal Swamp

1.4%

6,798

1,601

-76%

-97%

Rocky Intertidal

0.0%

5

0

-100%

-100%

Riverine Tidal

0.1%

697

324

-54%

-62%

Tidal Creek

0.0%

0

0

N/A

N/A

(Glick, Clough, & Nunley, 2008)

22





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement areas in the region that are ecologically of sea level rise on green infrastructure

valuable for water quality purposes, habitat,

requires consistent high-resolution elevation

or both (HRPDC, 2010). The plan provides an

data. In the absence of such data an analysis

inventory of existing natural resources and

was done using Category 1 storm surge

valuable areas as well as a guide for

(approximately four to five feet above normal

preservation and protection efforts.

sea level) as a proxy for projected impacts

Incorporating sea level rise projections allows from the combination of sea level rise and

for the prioritization of areas that should be

increased storm surge. However, better

preserved to allow for upland migration in

elevation data is needed for more reliable

Over 84,000 acres or

coastal and riparian areas. The latest update

analysis of these impacts. Using storm surge

16.5% of the region’s

to the regional plan identified over 500,000

data reveals areas that are at risk both due to green infrastructure

acres of high value areas, including over

inundation and to increased flooding from

network will be at risk

12,000 acres of land of high value for water

storms. To analyze the impacts of sea level

of inundation or more

quality, over 96,000 acres of land of high

rise on the regional green infrastructure

frequent flooding due

value for habitat, and over 400,000 acres of

network storm surge data was overlaid on the

to climate change.

high value for both.

network using GIS (Figure 12). The analysis



showed that over 84,000 acres or 16.5% of the

Long-term viability of the green

region’s green infrastructure network will be

infrastructure network will be in part affected at risk of inundation or more frequent

by sea level rise as areas are inundated or

flooding due to climate change. This includes

subject to more frequent flooding. Climate

approximately 3,900 acres of area valuable for

change may result in the permanent loss of

water quality, 1,500 acres of area valuable for green infrastructure or significant change in

habitat, and nearly 79,000 acres valuable for

some areas. Accurately assessing the impacts

Figure 12: Storm Surge Inundation of

Green Infrastructure in Hampton Roads



23





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement both. In addition, this analysis does not modified by sea level rise. The analysis shows

account for how climate change will

that the study area will be greatly affected by exacerbate many of the other stressors

storms because of sea level rise, and that the

already affecting the region’s green

conservation corridor system is extremely

infrastructure, such as non-surge riverine

vulnerable to flooding. Additionally, that

flooding, nutrient pollution from

vulnerability will increase over time as sea

development and agriculture, and increased

level continues to rise. Hurricane Isabel

salinity in waterways and aquifers.

showed that parts of the region and the



conservation corridor system are already

A similar analysis was conducted by staff at

vulnerable, but a similar storm fifty to a

the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, the

hundred years from now could devastate the

Chesapeake Bay Observation System, and

area. A catastrophic storm event, symbolized

Noblis. This analysis used some high—

by the Hurricane Isabel +2m scenario (Figure

resolution elevation data and storm surge

18), has the potential to not only inundate

models to analyze the impact of a major

much of the system, but also significantly

storm event when modified by sea level rise

alter the coastline. Such a result could occur

(Stamey, Wang, & Smith, 2010). For their

if a barrier island or coastal dune system were analysis the researchers used Hurricane Isabel breached by a storm, which could then cause as their test case, and modified it using set severe erosion.

intervals of sea level rise between 0.5m and



2.0m (Figures 13-19). One of the focus areas of the analysis was centered on Lynnhaven Bay

in Virginia Beach. The Hampton Roads

Conservation Corridor (HRPDC, 2006)

system was used to show regional

vulnerability to a large storm event that is

Figure 13: Initial Conditions,

Virginia Beach, Virginia



Image from (Stamey, Wang, & Smith, 2010)

24





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Figure 14: Conservation Corridors,

Virginia Beach, Virginia





Figure 15: Hurricane Isabel flood risk,

Virginia Beach, Virginia




Images from (Stamey, Wang, & Smith, 2010)



This series of maps is a demonstration of the capability of running high resolution inundation models using hypothetical conditions developed by NOBLIS and VIMS as part of the Chesapeake Bay Inundation System (CIPS). The sea level rise increments depicted are not a prediction of future sea level rise. NOBLIS and VIMS reserve copyright and permission must be obtained from them prior to any use of the images.

25





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Figure 16: Hurricane Isabel flood risk +0.5m SLR, Virginia Beach, Virginia





Figure 17 : Hurricane Isabel flood risk +1.0m SLR, Virginia Beach, Virginia




Images from (Stamey, Wang, & Smith, 2010)



This series of maps is a demonstration of the capabili ty of running high resolution inundation models using hypothetical conditions developed by NOBLIS and VIMS as part of the Chesapeake Bay Inundation System (CIPS). The sea level rise increments depicted are not a prediction of future sea level rise. NOBLIS and VIMS reserve copyright and permission must be obtained from them prior to any use of the images.

26





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Figure 18 : Hurricane Isabel flood risk +1.5m SLR, Virginia Beach, Virginia





Figure 19 : Hurricane Isabel flood risk +2.0m SLR, Virginia Beach, Virginia




Images from (Stamey, Wang, & Smith, 2010)



This series of maps is a demonstration of the capability of running high resolution inundation models using hypothetical conditions developed by NOBLIS and VIMS as part of the Chesapeake Bay Inundation System (CIPS). The sea level rise increments depicted are not a prediction of future sea level rise. NOBLIS and VIMS reserve copyright and permission must be obtained from them prior to any use of the images.

27



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement RESPONDING TO CLIMATE CHANGE Protection refers to structural solutions to protect against flooding, storm surge, or

inundation. Possible measures include

An effective response to climate change

seawalls, bulkheads, dikes, and storm surge

impacts will require both mitigation and

barriers (CCSP, 2009). Accommodation refers

adaptation. Mitigation actions are

to retrofitting or enhancing existing

intended to reduce the extent and rate of

structures or environments. This could

acceleration of climate change by

include elevating buildings, beach

Given current levels

reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

renourishment, or enhancing wetlands (Karl,

of atmospheric

Adaptation actions are intended to

Melillo, & Peterson, 2009). Retreat refers to a greenhouse gases,

minimize the adverse impacts of climate

broad range of options that allow or

change on built and natural systems.

global temperatures

encourage people and ecosystems to move

Given current atmospheric greenhouse gas

will continue to rise

away from vulnerable areas. These can

levels, global temperatures will continue to

include setbacks, rolling easements, and

over the next century,

rise over the next century, making adaptation

development restrictions (CCSP, 2009).

making adaptation a

a necessity regardless of mitigation strategies.

Effective adaptation to sea level rise or

necessity.

The reverse is also true; without mitigation

flooding “should focus on reducing growth in

climate change will at some point exceed

areas forecasted to be” affected over the next

cost-effective adaptive capacity. The long—

century (Jasinski & Claggett, 2009). Using

term rate of climate change will be

growth management to adapt to sea level rise

determined by global ability to limit the

has multiple benefits. It can protect existing

growth of and eventually reduce greenhouse

ecosystems near the shore, and can provide

gas emissions over the next 20 to 40 years.

public value by preserving those areas for

The extent and type of adaptation measures

recreation or public access. This ability to

needed in Hampton Roads will largely be

meet other needs such as stormwater

determined by global greenhouse gas

management and habitat provision is a

emissions during that 20 to 40 year window.

general hallmark of many adaptation options.

If global greenhouse gas emissions are held

They do not just help localities adapt to

flat or reduced during that time period, sea

climate change, but can also enhance quality

level rise rates are projected to be

of life and the natural environment.

problematic but are likely to be manageable.



If greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise

Research by the Chesapeake Bay Program

significantly during that period massive

describes another method of adapting to

melting of polar ice will result and sea level

climate change. Their work differentiates

rise will have a catastrophic impact on the

between adaptation and increasing resilience.

eastern portion of Hampton Roads.

Adaptation focuses on specific targets to plan



for, while resilience planning focuses on

ADAPTATION

increasing the robustness of built or natural

Adaptation to climate change will involve

infrastructure to deal with a wide range of

both changing development patterns and

possible conditions (Pyke, et al., 2008).

protecting existing development with flood

Resilient systems bend under stress but do

control measures. Many adaptation options

not break, so they are able to weather storms

are available. In general, these can be

more effectively and recover more quickly.

broken down into three categories:

Resilient systems are characterized by

protection, accommodation, and retreat

redundancy, diversity, efficiency, autonomy,

(Karl, Melillo, & Peterson, 2009).

strength, interdependence, adaptability, and

28



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement collaborativeness (Godschalk, 2003). They are MITIGATION

designed so that one part’s failure does not

Most of the mitigation options for limiting

cause the whole system to collapse. For cities, climate change involve reducing emissions.

resilience implies distributed infrastructures

Mitigation focuses on planning for reducing

that reinforce each other, while also being

the impacts of climate change before they

able to operate independently during crises

occur; it is “proactive rather than reactive,”

(Morrish, 2008). Adaptive responses are more

(Godschalk, 2003). Lower emissions rates

appropriate when future conditions are

sooner will lessen the overall magnitude of

predictable, while resiliency allows for

Climate change has

climate change and its effects. However, “no

uncertainty (Pyke, et al., 2008).

single technology can provide all the

the potential to have



mitigation potential in any sector,” so

large impacts on the

Adaptation of natural systems to climate

adaptation will still be required (IPCC, 2007).

Hampton Roads

change will look radically different from

Emissions reductions can be achieved

economy, but it may

adaptations in the built environment. Some

through greater energy efficiency or

also provide some

possible adaptation approaches for natural

switching to lower-or non-emissions sources

opportunities.

systems include protecting key resources,

of energy. Reforestation is also a potential

reducing anthropogenic stress, increasing

mitigation strategy. Strengthening natural

representation, replication, restoration,

systems by removing development stressors

refugia, and relocation (CCSP, 2008).

can also help mitigate some climate change

Protection focuses on identifying ecosystems

impacts. Most mitigation will require changes

or species that provide a foundation for the

in behavior. Several policies can be

region’s natural environment. Reducing

implemented to promote lower emissions;

anthopogenic stress focuses on reducing or

these include taxes on emissions and land-use

eliminating pollution or other stressors that

regulations that promote more mass transit

result from development. Adapting through

usage and less driving, or tax or other

representation requires identifying and

incentives that offset energy efficiency or

protecting a diversity of species so that the

alternative energy (IPCC, 2007).

ecosystem can survive and recover.



Replication focuses on protecting several

OPPORTUNITIES

representative species or ecosystems so that

Climate change has the potential to have

they are not all lost during an event.

large impacts on the Hampton Roads

Restoration focuses on bringing back

economy, but it may also provide some

damaged ecosystems. Refugia refers to

opportunities for the region. Several

identifying less sensitive areas that could

industries will be particularly hard hit by sea provide new environments or refuges for

level rise and increases in storm intensity;

migrating species. Relocation describes

tourism may suffer, and the military may also

artificially moving species to less sensitive

have difficulties with keeping its facilities

areas when that movement is prevented by

accessible and functioning. Waterfront

development (CCSP, 2008). Unlike options

property may also be damaged, resulting in

designed for the built environment, these

losses to both owners and to localities

adaptation options for natural systems mostly

through decreases in property tax revenue.

focus on reducing impediments to these

The impacts on physical infrastructure are

systems adapting themselves.

hard to quantify but could potentially be



high, as much of the region’s critical



infrastructure is located in areas that would

29



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement be affected to some degree by climate change.

level rise will be accounted for in the plans.

However, mitigation and adaptation

Also, HRPDC is in the process of developing a

measures addressing climate change may

regional critical infrastructure/key resources

provide some benefits to the region. A focus

plan, which will include sector plans focusing

on alternative energy could lead to the

on resiliency.

development of wind farms off the coast and



potentially to the development of a locally

DEVELOPMENT OF A FRAMEWORK FOR

based industry to supply wind energy

MITIGATION AND ADAPTATION TO

equipment and expertise to the region and

C

the nation. Striving for energy efficiency

LIMATE CHANGE IN HAMPTON ROADS

could have a similar effect. Research into the

One of the goals for the next two years of this physical adaptation responses to sea level rise project is to develop a regional framework for

could lead to the development of new

mitigating and adapting to climate change.

infrastructures that are better suited to a

The framework for mitigation and adaptation

more volatile climate and are more resilient

to climate change in Hampton Roads is

to the weather patterns the region already

intended to capture the results of the

deals with.

stakeholder involvement and policy



formulation process and to serve as a regional

P

guidance document for meeting the

ARALLEL EFFORTS

challenges of climate change. The framework

Hampton Roads localities are currently

is intended to be a living document that will

working on several efforts that closely relate

be updated over time as knowledge about

to the goals of climate change adaptation and

climate change improves and conditions in

mitigation. A committee has been meeting

Hampton Roads change. Several significant

for several months to discuss coordination of

difficulties exist in the development of such a Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block

framework. Those difficulties include the

Grant funds spending. Non-Entitlement

unknown future rate of global greenhouse gas

localities worked together to submit a

emissions, technical difficulties in

regional application for lighting upgrades,

downscaling global climate models to predict

while three of the region’s Entitlement

regional impacts and an extremely long

communities have allocated funds to a

planning horizon. Given these challenges the

regional greenhouse gas emissions inventory.

framework will need to be flexible and

Both of these projects fall under the

modular so that its structure can be revised

mitigation category. The HRPDC Elizabeth

and sections can be updated easily as

River Restoration Program Steering

circumstances and scientific knowledge

Committee is looking into coastal resilience

change.

planning areas around the river. One goal of



this effort is to account for industrial and

Establishment of a specific set of goals for the contaminated sites that may be inundated or

framework will be accomplished through an

flooded due to sea level rise. Planning for this extensive stakeholder involvement process.

is still underway. Regional emergency

The following set of general goals will be used management personnel are engaged in two

as a starting point for that process:

projects relating to climate change



adaptation. The first is the update of the

 Identify and implement regional and

region’s hazard mitigation plans, including

local measures that contribute to

regional plans for most of the Peninsula and

Southside communities. For the first time, sea

30



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement State and National efforts to mitigate include sea level rise and storm surge;

climate change;

atmospheric temperature increase; increasing

¾ Structure mitigation and adaptation

temperature, acidity, and salinity of waters;

efforts so that they ensure the

and changes in precipitation patterns.

continued economic vitality and

Specific environments will need to be

ecological integrity of Hampton

evaluated and adaptation plans will have to

Roads;

be developed for each. These environments

¾ Safety and high quality of life for

are the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries,

citizens of Hampton Roads will be

tributaries to the Albemarle/Pamlico Estuary,

paramount in the mitigation and

tidal wetlands, non-tidal wetlands, uplands,

adaptation process;

and barrier islands.




As is the case with the goals for the process,

Information needs for built environment

the structure of the framework will be revised

adaptation include a vulnerability assessment

and improved through the stakeholder

for at-risk areas and infrastructure as well as involvement process and subsequent research

further research into adaptation options and

and modeling. The following structure will

their feasibility. Adaptation plans will be

be used as a starting point.

needed many sectors, including:




Mitigation efforts will focus on

¾ Transportation infrastructure (roads,

completing the regional greenhouse gas

bridges, tunnels, and rails)

emissions inventory and developing an

¾ Residential structures

implementable action plan. This plan will ¾ Commercial structures

include the establishment of regional and

¾ Stormwater systems

local emissions targets, as well as the

¾ Wastewater systems (including

identification and implementation of

public sewers and private septic

greenhouse gas emission control measures.

systems)



¾ Drinking water supply infrastructure

Adaptation efforts will focus on data and

¾ Communication and mass media

information acquisition and development

infrastructure

of strategies for both the natural and

¾ Military facilities

built environments. General data and

¾ Port facilities

information needs include consistent, high‐

¾ Hospital and medical facilities

resolution elevation data for Virginia’s coastal ¾ Government and emergency

plain; improved understanding of sea level

management infrastructure and

rise rates; enhanced modeling tools for storm

facilities

surge changes associated with sea level rise;



and improved models for regional changes in

Two additional elements that will be included

precipitation patterns.

in the framework are a climate change



educational program for the citizens of

Information needed for natural systems

Hampton Roads and the establishment of

adaptation includes a vulnerability

monitoring and evaluation goals so that the

assessment for at-risk ecosystems and a

regional impacts of climate change and the

prioritization of adaptation options. Once

results of the mitigation and adaptation

these are acquired, several climate change

efforts can be measured and documented.



stressors will need to be evaluated. These

31



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement CASE STUDIES

the region for climate change impacts. The

report sets goals of emissions reductions of 20



percent by 2020 and 80 percent below 2005

Several other localities, regions, and nations

emission levels.

have begun the process of addressing climate



change. Many of their actions have resulted

The report also includes a section on the

in plans that outline the potential costs of

costs of meeting the various targets, as well as climate change while also describing

a discussion of the costs of inaction. The

strategies and goals for mitigating and

report describes strategies to mitigate

adapting to climate change. Most of the case

emissions from energy consumption,

studies viewed during the course of this

transportation, and land use, developing a

project focused mainly on climate change

“greener” economy, preparing for climate

mitigation in the form of greenhouse gas

change impacts, financing emissions

emissions inventories and the development of

reductions, and regional outreach and

strategies to reduce those emissions. These

education. Each of these sections includes

include a report by the Metropolitan

discrete recommendations that could be

Washington Council of Governments and a

adopted to further the report’s goals. Each

greenhouse gas emissions inventory

recommendation is described in terms of

conducted by the Delaware Valley Regional

estimated emission impacts, implementation

Planning Commission. Others focused more

timing, cost, and potential for other economic

on the adaptations that will be required to

or social benefits. The report closes with a

survive under a more hostile climate.

short section on next steps that can be taken

Examples of this sort include a sea level rise

by MWCOG to further climate change

impact analysis performed for California and

planning efforts.

large scale adaptation plans for the Thames



River estuary and the Dutch coast.

DELAWARE VALLEY



The Delaware Valley Regional Planning

NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION

Commission (DVRPC) is the regional

The Metropolitan Washington Council of

planning body and metropolitan planning

Governments (MWCOG) is a regional

organization for the Philadelphia region, and

organization of counties and cities in the

includes counties in Pennsylvania and New

Washington, DC area. It issued its National

Jersey. DVRPC has incorporated climate

Capital Region Climate Change Report in

change into its long-range regional plan in its 2008 (Metropolitan Washington Council of

sections on transportation, energy efficiency,

Governments, 2008). The report includes a

and livable communities (Delaware Valley

section on climate change and its potential

Regional Planning Commission, 2009). In

impacts on the Washington, DC area, a

addition, DVRPC completed a greenhouse gas

regional greenhouse gas emissions inventory,

emissions inventory in 2009 as the first step

and a set of targets for reducing those

in its Climate Change Initiatives program.

emissions. Potential impacts highlighted in

The report includes a discussion of the need

this report include sea level rise, higher air

for an emissions inventory as well as a list of temperatures, higher water temperatures,

the goals the DVRPC hopes to achieve by

changes in precipitation patterns, and human

conducting it. The DVRPC report contains a

health issues. The report also includes a set of thorough description of the methodology

actions to be taken to reduce emissions,

used to calculate the region’s emissions as

promote economic development, and prepare

well as the allocation process. The report

32



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement establishes a baseline inventory for section also includes a discussion of the costs comparison to future assessments and

of hard infrastructure protection measures in

projected trajectories. The allocation of the

response to sea level rise. The report uses a

baseline inventory forms the other significant

series of maps to identify and quantify the

part of the report. Emissions are allocated at

value of facilities at risk of flooding by county.

both the county level and at the “minor civil

The report includes a significant discussion of division” level, which refers to sub-county

the populations at risk due to increased

municipalities such as cities, townships, and

flooding as well as environmental justice

boroughs. The DVRPC emissions inventory is

concerns about the effects on vulnerable

a good example of a top-down, regional

populations. The report concludes with a

emissions inventory that is then allocated to

section on recommended practices and

the sub-regional entities. Because of data and policies for adaptation and further research.

modeling limitations the allocations vary in



confidence, but the process “provides MCDs

THAMES RIVER

with an excellent starting point” for

The Environment Agency of the United

community-level emissions inventories and

Kingdom has established a long-term flood

reduction strategies (Delaware Valley

risk management strategy for the Thames

Regional Planning Commission, 2009). The

River estuary (Thames Estuary 2100, 2009).

report describes the allocation methodology

This project, Thames Estuary 2100 (TE2100),

used, and includes a set of tables cataloging

is an in-depth analysis of what impacts can be

the emissions allocated to each municipality.

expected from climate change in the estuary



and how those impacts might be reduced,

CALIFORNIA COAST

negated, or adapted to. The main objectives

The California Energy Commission’s Public

of the plan are to reduce and minimize the

Interest Energy Research Program sponsored

risks and adverse impacts of flooding, to

a report by the Pacific Institute to look at the adapt to climate change, to promote

risk that sea level rise poses to areas on the

“sustainable and resilient development in the

California coast and San Francisco Bay. Using

tidal Thames floodplain,” to protect the

estimates of greenhouse gas emissions from

Thames River as a social cultural, and

the IPCC the study analyzes what may be at

commercial resource, and to restore and

risk under a moderate prediction of climate

enhance ecologically significant areas in the

change. The study looks at losses to both

estuary (Thames Estuary 2100, 2009). The

flooding and erosion caused by higher sea

plan consists of three main parts: a flood risk levels (California Climate Change Center,

management vision, an action plan and an

2009).

investment program covering multiple



options and avenues of adaptation, and a

The study includes a thorough methodology

discussion of flexible adaptation in the

section that describes how risk, damages, and

context of changing knowledge of climate

protection costs were quantified. The results

change and its impacts.

of the study are divided into two sections, one on flood-related risks and the other on

The TE2100 Plan is divided into three phases

erosion-related risks. Both sections analyze

through the end of the 21st century: 2010-2034, the risk to population, critical infrastructure 2035-2069, and 2070-2100 (Thames Estuary

such as emergency facilities and roads,

2100, 2009). Adaptation options are assigned

property, with the flood risk section also

to each phase. Adaptation options are

analyzing risks to wetlands. The flood risk

analyzed for their costs, benefits, and impacts 33



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement over time. Impacts assessed are to the natural the future by preemptively responding to

environment, the economy, human health

climate change.

and society, history and culture, physical



infrastructure, land use, recreation and open

The Committee’s report includes twelve

space, and water and hydrogeomorphology

major recommendations for future action out

(Thames Estuary 2100, 2009). The plan

to 2100. The cost of each action is projected.

includes a discussion of current flood risks in In addition, each recommendation is divided

the estuary and how those risks are liable to

into specific actions for 2010-2050 and for

increase due to climate change. An action

2050-2100. Recommendations include

plan includes options for the entire estuary

increasing flood protection levels,

and for eight smaller “action zones,” (Thames

incorporating flood protection into urban

Estuary 2100, 2009). The estuary-wide options

development plans, and specific flood

considered included improving existing

protection actions for each of several areas

defense, constructing tidal flood storage

(Deltacommissie, 2008). The report looks at

infrastructure, constructing a new barrier,

several vulnerable areas of the country,

and constructing a new barrier with locks.

including those along the coast and some

One of the strengths of the TE2100 Plan aside

inland areas. Existing flood defenses are

from its analysis of potential adaptation

analyzed. The report also analyzes additional

options is its focus on uncertainty and

defenses that would be necessary due to

flexibility. Because the extent of climate

climate change-induced sea level rise. Other

change impacts is unknown at this time and

potential impacts of climate change, such as

will depend on actions into the future, the

fresh water shortages and higher

plan established a mechanism by which

temperatures, are also discussed.

different options can be put into place. Ten



indicators, ranging from mean sea level to

The report bases its recommendations on a

erosion to development patterns are

risk management approach (Deltacommissie,

identified to establish when a change in

2008). Risk management measures reduce the

course might be necessary to successfully

probability or the consequences of storm

adapt to climate change.

events. Acceptable levels of risk are



designated for each area based on the value of

NETHERLANDS

the area being protected (e.g., some areas are

The Netherlands has had much experience

protected to a level of a ten-thousand year

with sea level rise and its consequences. With

water level, while some are protected to only

a significant part of the country below sea

one in 1,250 years). The report concludes with

level, the kingdom is constantly at risk from

a series of recommendations on how to

the sea. To respond to the additional

achieve the adaptation program.

challenges posed by climate change, the



Netherlands established the Sustainable

LESSONS FOR HAMPTON ROADS

Coastal Development Committee. This

These case studies of climate change plans by

committee’s work is built on that done by the

other localities and regions provide examples

Delta Committee, which was created to

of how Hampton Roads may proceed in

devise an engineered response following

planning for climate change. There are

floods in 1953 (Deltacommissie, 2008). The

several lessons that can be taken from these

goal of this new committee was to

studies and applied to the Hampton Roads

recommend adaptation options and policies

region’s ongoing efforts to plan for and adapt

that would help prevent a similar disaster in

to climate change. One example is the

34



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement detailed consideration of engineered and

non-engineered adaptation options for




expected costs and benefits, practicality, and

effectiveness. Another would be explicitly

considering risk in terms of impacts as well as in identifying necessary protection measures.

Assessing risk would allow for more detailed

adaptation needs to be considered. At this

point, certain data and research deficiencies – Identifying multiple

specifically the lack of consistent high-

adaptation pathways

resolution elevation data for the region as

early on allows for

well as climate models that offer projections

flexibility in

at the regional scale – prevent a full

addressing impacts.

assessment of the region’s risks and needs.



One important final lesson that can be taken

from the London and Netherlands plans is

that adaption plans should be reviewed and

reconsidered at set intervals. Identifying

multiple pathways of adaption early on in the

process allows for considerable flexibility in

addressing various levels of impacts while

reducing the chance of unnecessary

expenditures. Projecting climate change

impacts is inherently uncertain, both because

the science involves many complex,

interrelated variables and processes and

because future actions will play a pivotal role in dictating the extent of climate change.

Therefore, building flexibility and multiple

options into any climate change plan for the

region should be seriously considered.

Another lesson from the more detailed

adaptation studies that consider engineered

solutions is that the negative impacts of those structures on the natural environment will

have to be taken into account. Constructing

water barriers and other new infrastructure

can cause significant changes to ecosystems.

The tradeoff between engineered flood

protection schemes and ecological integrity

presents a major challenge in Hampton

Roads, which is home to both significant

development investment and important

coastal natural resources.



35



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT

meetings for the regional green infrastructure

update since the groups of localities were



appropriate for both. The meetings followed a

As part of the climate change impact analysis

common format. HRPDC staff began the

process, staff from the Hampton Roads

meetings by introducing the two projects,

Planning District Commission held meetings

their scopes, and the goals of the meeting.

with a variety of groups to identify and

Following the introduction a presentation

discuss potential climate change issues,

was made on previous work done for the

Climate change will

concerns, and impacts on the region.

projects and what steps were being

affect Hampton

Meetings were held with local government

undertaken. After the presentation, attendees

Roads communities

staffs, state and federal agencies, universities, were asked for input on direction for the

unequally.

private consultants, non-profit organizations,

projects, efforts their communities were

and concerned citizens.

conducting concerning both projects, and the



status of their comprehensive plan updates.

LOCALITY MEETINGS

Attendees were also given the opportunity to

A series of four meetings with local

ask questions from HRPDC staff about the

government staffs was held in spring 2009.

projects and their ongoing research.

Hampton Roads localities were placed into



four groups based on geographic proximity

Climate change will affect Hampton Roads

and similarity. All Hampton Roads localities

communities unequally; some communities,

and cities were invited; in addition, some

such as those with ocean or river coastlines,

incorporated towns were also invited.

will be more affected by sea level rise, for

Meetings were held in Yorktown for

example. These differences were evident

northwest Peninsula communities (the City

during the meetings, as each group had

of Williamsburg and Gloucester, James City,

different concerns about how climate change

and York Counties); Newport News for

would affect their communities and about

southeast Peninsula communities (the Cities

what steps should be taken to address those

of Hampton, Newport News, and Poquoson);

vulnerabilities. Communities were also taking

Franklin for western Tidewater communities

different steps to prepare for climate change.

(the Cities of Franklin and Suffolk and Isle of

Wight, Southampton, and Surry Counties);

The first Peninsula meeting, with staff from

and Chesapeake for Southside communities

Hampton, Poquoson, and Newport News,

(the Cities of Chesapeake, Norfolk,

focused mostly on the threat of sea level rise

Portsmouth, and Virginia Beach).

and possibilities for adaptation to it. These

Representatives from eight cities

communities have low-lying areas that are

(Chesapeake, Franklin, Hampton, Newport

already vulnerable to flooding and will be

News, Norfolk, Poquoson, Virginia Beach,

more vulnerable to more intense storms and

and Williamsburg), four counties (Gloucester,

sea level rise. These communities expressed

James City, Isle of Wight, and York), and one

concerns with the lack of availability of high—

town (Smithfield) attended the meetings.

resolution elevation data; some of these



communities have been using Category 1

The two Peninsula meetings were held on

Hurricane storm surge maps as proxies for

April 17, 2009, while the meetings for western

areas that would be inundated by sea level

Tidewater and Southside were held on April

rise, but this is inadequate for future

29 and May 8, 2009, respectively. The climate

planning. Sea level rise is being incorporated

change meetings were held concurrently with

into Hampton’s emergency management

36





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement plan, and will also be addressed in the next round of Peninsula regional emergency

planning efforts, although the focus will be on more immediate hazards and not long-term

planning. Hampton and Newport News both

have property acquisition programs that

target areas in floodplains and other

threatened areas when they go on the market.

Hampton and Newport News are also both

focusing on energy conservation and

efficiency in an effort to cut costs and

greenhouse gas emissions.

education on climate change issues for



planning commissions, Boards of Supervisors,

Identifying actions to take and policies to

and City Councils, in addition to conducting

adopt to address climate change was one goal

workshops for staffs. The participants also

of the meeting. The southeastern Peninsula

asked HRPDC to look into what other states

attendees had several suggestions for the

are doing to plan for climate change.

climate change study. These included



conducting a regional carbon footprint

The western Tidewater meeting included

assessment, looking into federal energy

participants from Franklin, Isle of Wight, and

grants, establishing shoreline management

Smithfield. These localities are for the most

programs to promote living shorelines and





part not directly addressing climate change


adaptation, identifying areas to protect with

adaptation at this time. Both Franklin and

infrastructure improvements and areas to

Isle of Wight are participating in energy

allow retreat from sea level rise, raising

efficiency programs such as the Go Green

marshes and wetlands with fill to help them

program conducted by the Virginia Municipal

keep pace with sea level rise.

League.




The second Peninsula meeting included

The Southside meeting was attended by

participants from Gloucester, James City,

representatives from Chesapeake, Norfolk,

Williamsburg, and York. These localities are

and Virginia Beach. These localities are all

incorporating sea level rise into their plans to beginning to address climate change in their

varying degrees. York County and Gloucester

planning to varying degrees. Chesapeake has

County are both working on updating their

had internal discussions but is still

floodplain maps. James City County is

researching steps to take regarding

including a section on climate change in the

adaptation. Norfolk is focusing its efforts on

environment chapter of its comprehensive

energy efficiency and has participated in the

plan update; the county has also focused

Go Green program. Virginia Beach will

some efforts on reducing carbon emissions.

explicitly discuss climate change and the

Gloucester County is also updating its hazard

threat posed by sea level rise in its next

mitigation plan with the rest of the Middle

comprehensive plan update, which is

Peninsula.

underway. At this point they are using



hurricane storm surge maps as proxies to

The attendees for the second meeting also

identify which areas of the city would be

had several suggestions. Chief among these

inundated by sea level rise.

was to offer some sort of training or

37





Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement Suggestions from this last meeting covered ongoing research projects that related to both

physical adaptation responses, research ideas

projects.

for the climate change study, and policy



changes. Suggestions for adaptation

Two research efforts by VIMS were

possibilities included looking to existing

introduced as being potentially helpful for the shoreline hardening infrastructure and how

climate change study. The first, a shallow

to maintain or upgrade it to meet future

water habitat study looking at the impacts of

threats and using the living shorelines

sea level rise and climate change, could help

approach to promote gradual adaption to sea

identify potential or ongoing changes to the

level rise. Research suggestions for the

region’s aquatic environments caused by

climate change study included analyzing the

climate change. The second project is a study

environmental impacts of sea level rise and

led by Dr. Harry Wang of the Department of

flooding as well as projected changes in

Physical Sciences that is analyzing the effect

precipitation and storm patterns. Identifying

of sea level rise on storm surges, with the end areas to protect with hard defenses and areas

goal of producing a high-resolution map that

where retreat was preferable was suggested as

will detail which areas in the region are

a policy option.

vulnerable to hurricanes and other storms as



local sea level rises. Dr. Wang also offered to OTHER MEETINGS

conduct a workshop for local planning staff

HRPDC staff met with faculty and staff from

on the results of his research once it is

the Virginia Institute of Marine Science

completed.

(VIMS) on April 15, 2009, to discuss current



VIMS research projects related to climate

A large meeting with over thirty participants

change and future steps for the regional

was held at HRPDC on October 29, 2009. The

climate change study. The meeting included

purpose of this meeting was to bring together

participants from the Center for Coastal

local, state, and federal government staff from Resources Management, the Department of

a variety of agencies dealing with climate

Fisheries Science, and the Department of

change along with public and private

Physical Sciences. This meeting followed a

researchers. Participants included local

similar format to the meetings with local

government planners and emergency

government staffs. HRPDC staff gave a brief

management personnel, natural resources

presentation on the regional green

agency staff, representatives of concerned

infrastructure update and the climate change

non-governmental organizations, and staff

study. VIMS staff then discussed their

from private companies working on climate

change research and adaptation. The

meeting was divided into two parts. The first

consisted of three presentations. Dr. Harry

Wang of VIMS discussed storm surge and

inundation modeling of the Chesapeake Bay

in reference to rising sea levels. Mr. Barry

Stamey of Noblis gave a presentation on the

impacts of sea level rise and increased storm

surge on the Hampton Roads region. Mr.

Duane Apling from Northrop Grumman

discussed regional climate modeling and

decision aids in the context of sea level rise.

38



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement HRPDC staff also gave a brief presentation on the ongoing climate change study and

projected impacts of climate change on

Hampton Roads.



The meeting concluded with a discussion of

how the climate change study should proceed

over the next two years. The main topic of

discussion was the creation and composition

of a stakeholder working group that would

work closely with HRPDC staff over the

study’s remaining timetable to consider

which impacts and responses to study more

closely. Attendees suggested ideas for which

groups and agencies should be represented

on the working group. The working group is

still in the process of being formed.



The stakeholder involvement process for the

climate change study continues. HRPDC staff

found the meetings with local government

staff and researchers to be both useful and

necessary for ensuring that local government

concerns and needs were being addressed,

and that staff was pursuing reasonable paths

of study. Working closely with researchers

will help over the remaining two years of the

project to maintain accuracy in projections of

impacts and to keep aware of ongoing

research in the field. By including local

government staff in the project from the

beginning and continuing their involvement

through the stakeholder working group and

other avenues HRPDC staff hopes to create a

series of products that will be useful and

practical for local governments in helping

them identify, quantify, and prepare for the

impacts of climate change.





39



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement CONCLUSIONS AND

The application of sophisticated

RECOMMENDATIONS

modeling tools will be needed to perform

a detailed vulnerability analysis of the



built environment and associated

The first year of this project has revealed how infrastructure in Hampton Roads. The

daunting a task coping with climate change

models under development by VIMS and

will be for the region and how important it is

Noblis show great promise in their ability to

that this effort progress rapidly. The task of

replicate past storm events. Combined with

Assembling and

assembling and executing a long-term plan

the previously mentioned elevation data and

executing a long-term

for mitigation and adaptation at the regional

appropriate funding it will be possible to

plan for mitigation

level will be both difficult and resource

assess vulnerability under a variety of sea

and adaptation at the

intensive. Planning for climate change will

level rise and storm scenarios and to evaluate

regional level will be

have to be an interdisciplinary undertaking,

some of the adaptation options.

both difficult and

combining the skills and knowledge of many



fields. The Focal Area grant supplied by the

In the realm of adaptation planning for the

resource intensive.

Virginia Coastal Zone Management Program

natural environment, much additional

is a valuable first step in this process, but

information is needed from scientists working

ultimately the effort will have to extend well

on the question of how to best respond to the

beyond this initial project. Substantial

additional stresses placed on natural systems

additional funding is needed for data

by climate change. There is general

acquisition, field work and continued model

agreement within the scientific community

development. Unfortunately additional

that this will be a two step process,

funding sources have not yet been identified.

vulnerability analysis followed by the creation

of adaptation plans. This is a relatively new

The initial year of work on this project has

area of science and the way forward is not

resulted in a substantial increase in the

entirely clear. General agreement exists that

visibility of the problem of climate change

minimizing other stresses on natural systems

within the Hampton Roads community. The

such as pollution, fragmentation and

Hampton Roads Planning District

encroachment by development will help to

Commission has received two briefings on the minimize damage associated with climate topic and is now fully engaged in dealing with change. The question of the efficacy of

the problems of sea level rise and associated

specific interventions to assist natural

increases in flooding.

systems in resiliency to climate change



remains to be answered.

The first phase of this project has also



resulted in identification of several types of

The Hampton Roads Planning District

information that will be needed to support

Commission will continue to study the

future planning efforts. One of the greatest regional impacts of climate change and

needs is for consistent high-resolution

potential responses over the next two years.

elevation data for the entire region;

There will be three areas of focus for the next indeed, this applies to the whole Coastal Plain year. The first will be the continued of Virginia. Improved elevation data is crucial development of the regional response

to analyzing the vulnerability of the region to framework. The second will be further

sea level rise and storm surge.

analysis of impacts and policy options for



specific sectors such as the economy, built

environment, and natural environment. The

40



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement third will be continuing to work with outside agencies and groups to promote the

development of tools to analyze sea level rise

impacts.

41



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement WORKS CITED

Glick, P., Clough, J., & Nunley, B. (2008).

SeaLevel Rise and Coastal Habitats in the



Chesapeake Bay Region Technical Report.

Boon, J. (2004). Sea Coast and Sea Level National Wildlife Federation.

Trends. Retrieved December 2, 2009, from Godschalk, D. R. (2003, August). Urban

Virginia Institute of Marine Science:

Hazard Mitigation: Creating Resilient Cities.

http://web.vims.edu/physical/research/sealev

Natural Hazards Review , 136-143.

el/sealevel.pdf?svr=www

Governor's Commission on Climate

Boon, J. (2003). The Three Faces of Isabel: Change. (2008). Final Report: A Climate Storm Surge, Storm Tide, and Sea Level Rise.

Change Action Plan. Richmond, Virginia: Retrieved December 2, 2009, from Virginia

Commonwealth of Virginia.

Institute of Marine Science:

HRPDC. (2010). A Green Infrastructure Plan http://web.vims.edu/physical/research/isabel

for the Hampton Roads Region. Chesapeake, /?svr=www

VA: Hampton Roads Planning District

California Climate Change Center. (2009).

Commission.

The Impacts of SeaLevel Rise on the California HRPDC. (2007). Green Infrastructure in Coast. Oakland, CA: Pacific Institute.

Hampton Roads. Chesapeake, VA: Hampton

CCSP. (2009). Coastal Sensitivity to Sea Level Roads Planning District Commission.

Rise: A Focus on the Mid-Atlantic Region. A

HRPDC. (2006). Hampton Roads

reporty by the U.S. Climate Change Science

Conservation Corridor Study. Chesapeake, VA: Program and the Subcommittee on Global

Hampton Roads Planning District

Change Research. Washington, DC: U.S.

Commission.

Environmental Protection Agency.

IPCC. (2007). Climate Change 2007: Synthesis CCSP. (2008). Preliminary review of

Report. Contributions of Working Groups I, II adaptation options for climate-sensitive

and III to the Fourth Assessment Report of the ecosystems and resources. A Report by the

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the

[Core Writing Team, Pachauri, R.K. and

Subcommittee on Global Change Research.

Reisinger, A. (eds.)]. Geneva, Switzerland: Washington, DC: U.S. Environmental

IPCC.

Protection Agency.

Jasinski, P., & Claggett, P. (2009). Draft Delaware Valley Regional Planning

Report on Chesapeake Bay Watershed Climate

Commission. (2009). Connections: The Change Impacts: A draft report fulfilling

Regional Plan for a Sustainable Future.

Section 202(d) of Executive Order 13508.

Philadelphia: Delaware Valley Regional

Chesapeake Bay Program.

Planning Commission.

Karl, T. R., Melillo, J. M., & Peterson, T. C.

Delaware Valley Regional Planning

(2009). Global Climate Change Impacts in the Commission. (2009). Regional Greenhouse United States. Cambridge University Press.

Gas Emissions Inventory. Philadelphia:

Metropolitan Washington Council of

Delaware Valley Regional Planning

Governments. (2008). National Capital Commission.

Region Climate Change Report. Washington, Deltacommissie. (2008). Working together DC: Metropolitan Washington Council of

with water: A living land builds for its future.

Governments.

Deltacommissie.

Morrish, W. R. (2008). Resilient Everyday Fahrenthold, D. A. (2008, May 23). Rising Infrastructure. Places , 20 (3), 74-75.

Seas Called Threat To Shore and Bay by 2100.



The Washington Post , p. B03.

42



Climate Change in Hampton Roads: Impacts and Stakeholder Involvement National Science Foundation. (2009).

Wright, K. M., & Hogan, C. (2008). The Solving the Puzzle: Researching the Impacts of Potential Impacts of Global Sea Level Rise on Climate Change Around the World. National Transportation Infrastructure. Washington, Science Foundation.

DC: U.S. DOT Center for Climate Change and

NOAA. (2008, December 9). Mean Sea Level Environmental Forecasting.

Trend 8638610 Sewells Point, Virginia.

Zeller, J. T. (2009, December 7). Climate Retrieved December 14, 2009, from NOAA

Talks Open With Calls for Urgent Action.

Tides and Currents:

Retrieved January 27, 2010, from The New

http://tidesandcurrents.noaa.gov/sltrends/slt

York Times:

rends_station.shtml?stnid=8638610

http://www.nytimes.com/2009/12/08/science

Pyke, C. R., Najjar, R. G., Adams, M. B.,

earth08climate.html

Breitburg, D., Kemp, M., Hershner, C., et



al. (2008). Climate Change and the



Chesapeake Bay: State-of-the-Science Review

and Recommendations. A Report from the

Chesapeake Bay Program Science and

Technical Advisory Committee (STAC).

Annapolis, MD.

Revkin, A. C., & Broder, J. M. (2009, December 19). A Grudging Accord in Climate

Talks. Retrieved February 24, 2010, from The New York Times:

http://www.nytimes.com/2009/12/20/science

earth20accord.html

Snover, A. K., Binder, L. W., Lopez, J.,

Willmott, E., Kay, J., Howell, D., et al.

(2007). Preparing for Climate Change: A

Guidebook for Local, Regional, and State

Governments. Oakland, CA: ICLEI - Local Governments for Sustainability.

Stamey, B., Wang, H., & Smith, L. (2010, January 28). Chesapeake Inundation

Prediction System (CIPS): From Forecasting

to Climate Planning. Presentation to HRPDC

Staff . Noblis, Chesapeake Bay Observation System, VIMS.

Thames Estuary 2100. (2009). Thames

Estuary 2100 Strategic Environmental

Assessment Environmental Report Summary.

London: United Kingdom Environment

Agency.

Thames Estuary 2100. (2009). Thames

Estuary 2100 TE2100 Plan Consultation

Document. London: United Kingdom

Environment Agency.

43





Document Outline


Front Cover

Inside Cover

Title and Funding Information

Report Documentation

Table of Contents

List of Figures

Introduction

What is Climate Change?

Climate Change Impacts

Analysis: Natural Resources Impacts in Hampton Roads

Responding to Climate Change

Case Studies

Stakeholder Involvement

Conclusions and Recommendations

Works Cited





