Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 29 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 29 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 29 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 29 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 29 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 29 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 29 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 29 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 29 of 77”
Table: 29	Table: 29	Table: 29	Table: 29	Table: 29	Table: 29	Table: 29	Table: 29	Table: 29
							
City of Chesapeake, Virginia							
FY 2011-12 Operating Budget	FY 2011-12 Operating Budget						
REVENUE BUDGET							DESCRIPTION OF FUNDS	DESCRIPTION OF FUNDS
Fee Supported Activities Fund - 204	Fee Supported Activities Fund - 204	Fee Supported Activities Fund - 204					
The Fee Supported Activities Fund was established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for	The Fee Supported Activities Fund was established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for	The Fee Supported Activities Fund was established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for	The Fee Supported Activities Fund was established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for	The Fee Supported Activities Fund was established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for	The Fee Supported Activities Fund was established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for	The Fee Supported Activities Fund was established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for	The Fee Supported Activities Fund was established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for	The Fee Supported Activities Fund was established during the FY99 budgeting process in order to account for
revenues and expenditures related to various fee supported activities. The programs and line items contained in this	revenues and expenditures related to various fee supported activities. The programs and line items contained in this	revenues and expenditures related to various fee supported activities. The programs and line items contained in this	revenues and expenditures related to various fee supported activities. The programs and line items contained in this	revenues and expenditures related to various fee supported activities. The programs and line items contained in this	revenues and expenditures related to various fee supported activities. The programs and line items contained in this	revenues and expenditures related to various fee supported activities. The programs and line items contained in this	revenues and expenditures related to various fee supported activities. The programs and line items contained in this	revenues and expenditures related to various fee supported activities. The programs and line items contained in this
fund have varied over the years since its establisment. Current programs including Development & Permits charges for	fund have varied over the years since its establisment. Current programs including Development & Permits charges for	fund have varied over the years since its establisment. Current programs including Development & Permits charges for	fund have varied over the years since its establisment. Current programs including Development & Permits charges for	fund have varied over the years since its establisment. Current programs including Development & Permits charges for	fund have varied over the years since its establisment. Current programs including Development & Permits charges for	fund have varied over the years since its establisment. Current programs including Development & Permits charges for	fund have varied over the years since its establisment. Current programs including Development & Permits charges for	fund have varied over the years since its establisment. Current programs including Development & Permits charges for
demolition of buildings, grass cutting on neglected properties, Police Department red light enforcement program, Fire	demolition of buildings, grass cutting on neglected properties, Police Department red light enforcement program, Fire	demolition of buildings, grass cutting on neglected properties, Police Department red light enforcement program, Fire	demolition of buildings, grass cutting on neglected properties, Police Department red light enforcement program, Fire	demolition of buildings, grass cutting on neglected properties, Police Department red light enforcement program, Fire	demolition of buildings, grass cutting on neglected properties, Police Department red light enforcement program, Fire	demolition of buildings, grass cutting on neglected properties, Police Department red light enforcement program, Fire	demolition of buildings, grass cutting on neglected properties, Police Department red light enforcement program, Fire	demolition of buildings, grass cutting on neglected properties, Police Department red light enforcement program, Fire
Department permits, fines and cost recovery in connection with the Chesapeake Hazardous Environmental Action Team,	Department permits, fines and cost recovery in connection with the Chesapeake Hazardous Environmental Action Team,	Department permits, fines and cost recovery in connection with the Chesapeake Hazardous Environmental Action Team,	Department permits, fines and cost recovery in connection with the Chesapeake Hazardous Environmental Action Team,	Department permits, fines and cost recovery in connection with the Chesapeake Hazardous Environmental Action Team,	Department permits, fines and cost recovery in connection with the Chesapeake Hazardous Environmental Action Team,	Department permits, fines and cost recovery in connection with the Chesapeake Hazardous Environmental Action Team,	Department permits, fines and cost recovery in connection with the Chesapeake Hazardous Environmental Action Team,	Department permits, fines and cost recovery in connection with the Chesapeake Hazardous Environmental Action Team,
and Fire Department inspections and permits.	and Fire Department inspections and permits.	and Fire Department inspections and permits.	and Fire Department inspections and permits.				
Community Services Fund - 205	Community Services Fund - 205						
The Community Services Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures from the City and the Virginia Department of	The Community Services Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures from the City and the Virginia Department of	The Community Services Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures from the City and the Virginia Department of	The Community Services Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures from the City and the Virginia Department of	The Community Services Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures from the City and the Virginia Department of	The Community Services Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures from the City and the Virginia Department of	The Community Services Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures from the City and the Virginia Department of	The Community Services Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures from the City and the Virginia Department of	The Community Services Fund accounts for revenues and expenditures from the City and the Virginia Department of
Behavioral Health and Developmental Services to operate the Mental Health, Intellectual Disability and Substance Abuse	Behavioral Health and Developmental Services to operate the Mental Health, Intellectual Disability and Substance Abuse	Behavioral Health and Developmental Services to operate the Mental Health, Intellectual Disability and Substance Abuse	Behavioral Health and Developmental Services to operate the Mental Health, Intellectual Disability and Substance Abuse	Behavioral Health and Developmental Services to operate the Mental Health, Intellectual Disability and Substance Abuse	Behavioral Health and Developmental Services to operate the Mental Health, Intellectual Disability and Substance Abuse	Behavioral Health and Developmental Services to operate the Mental Health, Intellectual Disability and Substance Abuse	Behavioral Health and Developmental Services to operate the Mental Health, Intellectual Disability and Substance Abuse	Behavioral Health and Developmental Services to operate the Mental Health, Intellectual Disability and Substance Abuse
Programs. Revenues in this fund come primarily from State and federal sources. The revenues also include Charges for	Programs. Revenues in this fund come primarily from State and federal sources. The revenues also include Charges for	Programs. Revenues in this fund come primarily from State and federal sources. The revenues also include Charges for	Programs. Revenues in this fund come primarily from State and federal sources. The revenues also include Charges for	Programs. Revenues in this fund come primarily from State and federal sources. The revenues also include Charges for	Programs. Revenues in this fund come primarily from State and federal sources. The revenues also include Charges for	Programs. Revenues in this fund come primarily from State and federal sources. The revenues also include Charges for	Programs. Revenues in this fund come primarily from State and federal sources. The revenues also include Charges for	Programs. Revenues in this fund come primarily from State and federal sources. The revenues also include Charges for
Services provided by Community Services.	Services provided by Community Services.	Services provided by Community Services.					
			COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND	COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND	COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND			Millions
20%								$14
								$12
15%							
								$10
10%								$8
5%								$6
								$4
0%							
								$2
-5%								$0
2004	2005	2006	2007	2008	2009	2010	Budget	Forecast
							2011	2012
			Change		Revenue	Revenue	
	CHESAPEAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND - 205 REVENUES	CHESAPEAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND - 205 REVENUES	CHESAPEAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND - 205 REVENUES	CHESAPEAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND - 205 REVENUES	CHESAPEAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND - 205 REVENUES	CHESAPEAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND - 205 REVENUES	CHESAPEAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND - 205 REVENUES
		Fiscal Year	Fiscal Year	Revenue	Change	Change	
			2004	$7,819,026		3.6%	
			2005	$8,251,986		5.5%	
			2006	$9,526,751		15.4%	
			2007	$10,323,080		8.4%	
			2008	$12,019,294		16.4%	
			2009	$11,598,200		-3.5%	
			2010	$12,140,648		4.7%	
		Budget 2011	Budget 2011	$12,307,308		1.4%	
		Forecast 2012	Forecast 2012	$12,460,410		1.2%	
FY 2011-12 Operating Budget				63				Revised June 14, 2011
