Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 77”
Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1
				
City of Chesapeake, Virginia				
FY2011-12 Operating Budget				
REVENUE BUDGET			ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS	ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS	ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS
ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES	ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES	ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES		
The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More
than 200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than 200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than 200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than 200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than 200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental	than 200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental
transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source	transfers from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source
is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from	is governed by a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from
state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In	state and federal agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In
addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come	addition, local conditions such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come
"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"	"into play. For enterprise funds, the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate"
structure are key factors.				
The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide
services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income,	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income,	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income,	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income,	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income,	services, is the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income,
the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and	the level of economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and
commercial construction, business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the	commercial construction, business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the	commercial construction, business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the	commercial construction, business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the	commercial construction, business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the	commercial construction, business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the
core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base	core of the local revenue base. National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base
by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and	by creating demand for goods and services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and
creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services	creating employment opportunities. Lastly, defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services
continues to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.	continues to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.	continues to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.	continues to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.	continues to play a significant role in the regional economy. Some of these factors are described below.
NATIONAL ECONOMIC OUTLOOK				
Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy
are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic	are growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic
Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest	Product, growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest
"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"	"rates that govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The"
economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military	economic vigor of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military
goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National	goods and services exported by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National
Bureau of Economic Research has determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its	Bureau of Economic Research has determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its	Bureau of Economic Research has determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its	Bureau of Economic Research has determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its	Bureau of Economic Research has determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its	Bureau of Economic Research has determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its
trough in July 2009. However, employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low	trough in July 2009. However, employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low	trough in July 2009. However, employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low	trough in July 2009. However, employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low	trough in July 2009. However, employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low	trough in July 2009. However, employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low
inflation and interest rates. The recovery is expected to be slow and take several years.	inflation and interest rates. The recovery is expected to be slow and take several years.	inflation and interest rates. The recovery is expected to be slow and take several years.	inflation and interest rates. The recovery is expected to be slow and take several years.	inflation and interest rates. The recovery is expected to be slow and take several years.
Congressional Budget Office	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012
Includes Presidents Budget	Actual			Forecast
January 2011 Forecast	2008	2009	2010	2011	2012
Nominal GDP Growth	3.3%	-1.3%	3.9%	2.8%	5.6%
Real GDP Growth	1.1%	-2.5%	2.8%	1.9%	4.4%
Consumer Price Index Change	3.8%	1.7%	1.6%	1.1%	1.2%
Unemployment Rate	5.8%	9.3%	9.6%	9.4%	8.4%
Three-Month Treasury Bill Rate	1.4%	0.1%	0.1%	0.3%	1.1%
Ten-Year Treasury Note Rate	3.7%	3.2%	3.2%	3.4%	3.8%
Philadelphia Federal Reserve	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2010 through 2012
Survey of Professional Forecaster		Actual		Forecast
Median Forecasts 1st Qtr 2010		2009	2010	2011	2012
Nominal GDP Growth		-1.2%	3.8%	4.6%	4.9%
Real GDP Growth		-2.5%	2.7%	3.2%	3.1%
Consumer Price Index Change		1.1%	1.2%	1.7%	2.0%
Unemployment Rate		9.3%	9.6%	9.1%	8.5%
Three-Month Treasury Bill Rate		0.2%	0.14%	0.2%	1.0%
Ten-Year Treasury Note Rate		3.3%	3.21%	3.6%	4.1%
FY2011-12 Operating Budget		35			Revised June 14, 2011
