Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 39 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 39 of 77”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 39 of 77”
Table: 39	Table: 39	Table: 39
	
City of Chesapeake, Virginia	
FY 2011-12 Operating Budget	
REVENUE BUDGET		DESCRIPTION OF FUNDS
Jordan Bridge Fund - 530	
The Jordan Bridge was a toll bridge spanning the Southern Branch of the Elizabeth River in the South Norfolk area of	The Jordan Bridge was a toll bridge spanning the Southern Branch of the Elizabeth River in the South Norfolk area of	The Jordan Bridge was a toll bridge spanning the Southern Branch of the Elizabeth River in the South Norfolk area of
Chesapeake. It connects South Norfolk to Portsmouth. This fund was established to account for revenues and	Chesapeake. It connects South Norfolk to Portsmouth. This fund was established to account for revenues and	Chesapeake. It connects South Norfolk to Portsmouth. This fund was established to account for revenues and
expenditures related to the operation of the original Jordan Bridge operated by the City. The revenues in this fund came	expenditures related to the operation of the original Jordan Bridge operated by the City. The revenues in this fund came	expenditures related to the operation of the original Jordan Bridge operated by the City. The revenues in this fund came
primarily from the Cash Toll and Discount Tickets sold. A small amount of revenue also came from Interest and Service	primarily from the Cash Toll and Discount Tickets sold. A small amount of revenue also came from Interest and Service	primarily from the Cash Toll and Discount Tickets sold. A small amount of revenue also came from Interest and Service
Charges. The bridge was closed November 2008 due to safety concerns and is being rebuilt as a 2-lane toll facility by	Charges. The bridge was closed November 2008 due to safety concerns and is being rebuilt as a 2-lane toll facility by	Charges. The bridge was closed November 2008 due to safety concerns and is being rebuilt as a 2-lane toll facility by
Figg Bridge Developers, who will operate the bridge and collect the tolls when it is completed and opens.	Figg Bridge Developers, who will operate the bridge and collect the tolls when it is completed and opens.	Figg Bridge Developers, who will operate the bridge and collect the tolls when it is completed and opens.
INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS DESCRIPTIONS	
The City of Chesapeake maintains three internal service funds to supply the needs of the various departments within	The City of Chesapeake maintains three internal service funds to supply the needs of the various departments within	The City of Chesapeake maintains three internal service funds to supply the needs of the various departments within
the city. The revenues earned in each fund are related to the services that they provide to other departments and are	the city. The revenues earned in each fund are related to the services that they provide to other departments and are	the city. The revenues earned in each fund are related to the services that they provide to other departments and are
primarily internal charges rather than true revenues. These internal service funds include:	primarily internal charges rather than true revenues. These internal service funds include:	primarily internal charges rather than true revenues. These internal service funds include:
Central Fleet Management Fund - 601	
Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the operation of the City Garage. The fund is used to	Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the operation of the City Garage. The fund is used to	Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the operation of the City Garage. The fund is used to
maintain the vehicles and equipment owned by the City. The primary source of revenue is a vehicle lease charge that is	maintain the vehicles and equipment owned by the City. The primary source of revenue is a vehicle lease charge that is	maintain the vehicles and equipment owned by the City. The primary source of revenue is a vehicle lease charge that is
paid by the department being served.	
Information Technology Fund - 603	
Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the operation of the City's Information Technology	Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the operation of the City's Information Technology	Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the operation of the City's Information Technology
Department. The department services and maintains the City's computer and communication systems. The primary	Department. The department services and maintains the City's computer and communication systems. The primary	Department. The department services and maintains the City's computer and communication systems. The primary
source of revenue is the Sale of Computer Services, which is received from the departments being served.	source of revenue is the Sale of Computer Services, which is received from the departments being served.	source of revenue is the Sale of Computer Services, which is received from the departments being served.
Self-Insurance Fund - 606	
Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the operation of the City's Risk Management	Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the operation of the City's Risk Management	Established to account for revenues and expenditures related to the operation of the City's Risk Management
operations. Risk Management is responsible for supplying the various insurance needs of the City. The primary source	operations. Risk Management is responsible for supplying the various insurance needs of the City. The primary source	operations. Risk Management is responsible for supplying the various insurance needs of the City. The primary source
of revenue is the Sale of Service to Departments.	
FY 2011-12 Operating Budget	73	Revised June 14, 2011
