Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 78”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 78”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 78”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 78”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 78”	Name: “Table 1 of 1 on page 1 of 78”
Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1	Table: 1
				
City of Chesapeake, Virginia				
FY2012-13 Operating Budget				
REVENUE BUDGET			ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS	ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS
ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES	ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES	ECONOMIC, DEMOGRAPHIC AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES		
The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More than	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More than	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More than	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More than	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More than	The revenue budget for the City of Chesapeake consists of over 500 line items representing different sources. More than
200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental transfers	200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental transfers	200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental transfers	200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental transfers	200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental transfers	200 of these reside in the General Fund. Local revenues comprise 84% of General Fund, while intergovernmental transfers
from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source is governed by	from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source is governed by	from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source is governed by	from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source is governed by	from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source is governed by	from state and federal sources make up the other 16% of resources. The amount of revenue from each source is governed by
a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from state and federal	a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from state and federal	a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from state and federal	a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from state and federal	a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from state and federal	a distinct set of conditions particular to that source. In the case of intergovernmental revenues from state and federal
agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In addition, local conditions	agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In addition, local conditions	agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In addition, local conditions	agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In addition, local conditions	agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In addition, local conditions	agencies, the policies and budgetary capacity of the respective governments are the key factors. In addition, local conditions
such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come into play. For enterprise funds,	such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come into play. For enterprise funds,	such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come into play. For enterprise funds,	such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come into play. For enterprise funds,	such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come into play. For enterprise funds,	such as the size of program-designated populations, staffing formulas and other factors come into play. For enterprise funds,
"the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate structure are key factors."	"the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate structure are key factors."	"the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate structure are key factors."	"the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate structure are key factors."	"the volume of demand and size of the population served (""market"") under a given rate structure are key factors."
The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide services, is	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide services, is	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide services, is	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide services, is	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide services, is	The largest revenue component, and the core of the resource base that constitutes the City's ability to provide services, is
the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income, the level of	the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income, the level of	the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income, the level of	the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income, the level of	the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income, the level of	the local revenue portion of the General Fund. The size of the local population, its employment and income, the level of
economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and commercial construction,	economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and commercial construction,	economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and commercial construction,	economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and commercial construction,	economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and commercial construction,	economic activity within the City, and the growth of invested value in the form of residential and commercial construction,
business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the core of the local revenue base.	business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the core of the local revenue base.	business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the core of the local revenue base.	business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the core of the local revenue base.	business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the core of the local revenue base.	business investment in plant and equipment, and demand for local real property are at the core of the local revenue base.
National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base by creating demand for goods and	National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base by creating demand for goods and	National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base by creating demand for goods and	National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base by creating demand for goods and	National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base by creating demand for goods and	National, State, and Regional economic conditions directly affect the local revenue base by creating demand for goods and
services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and creating employment opportunities. Lastly,	services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and creating employment opportunities. Lastly,	services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and creating employment opportunities. Lastly,	services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and creating employment opportunities. Lastly,	services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and creating employment opportunities. Lastly,	services produced in the City, driving investment returns and interest rates, and creating employment opportunities. Lastly,
defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services continues to play a significant role in the regional	defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services continues to play a significant role in the regional	defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services continues to play a significant role in the regional	defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services continues to play a significant role in the regional	defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services continues to play a significant role in the regional	defense spending on military personnel, supplies and contract services continues to play a significant role in the regional
economy. Some of these factors are described below.	economy. Some of these factors are described below.			
NATIONAL ECONOMIC OUTLOOK				
Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy are	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy are	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy are	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy are	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy are	Among the important factors influencing local government revenues from the standpoint of the national economy are
growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic Product,	growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic Product,	growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic Product,	growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic Product,	growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic Product,	growth in the amount of goods and services produced by the nation as a whole as measured by the Gross Domestic Product,
growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest rates that	growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest rates that	growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest rates that	growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest rates that	growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest rates that	growth in employment, the trend in price levels as measured by the urban Consumer Price Index, and interest rates that
"govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The economic vigor"	"govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The economic vigor"	"govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The economic vigor"	"govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The economic vigor"	"govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The economic vigor"	"govern the City's cost of long term capital and the return it earns on its cash reserves (""working capital""). The economic vigor"
of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military goods and services exported	of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military goods and services exported	of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military goods and services exported	of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military goods and services exported	of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military goods and services exported	of the nation as a whole also reflects the strength of market demand for much of the non-military goods and services exported
by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research has	by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research has	by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research has	by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research has	by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research has	by the Hampton Roads region. The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research has
determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its trough in July 2009. However,	determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its trough in July 2009. However,	determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its trough in July 2009. However,	determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its trough in July 2009. However,	determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its trough in July 2009. However,	determined that the severe recession which began in December of 2007 reached its trough in July 2009. However,
employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low inflation and interest rates. The	employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low inflation and interest rates. The	employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low inflation and interest rates. The	employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low inflation and interest rates. The	employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low inflation and interest rates. The	employment, incomes and production remain relatively stagnant under conditions of low inflation and interest rates. The
recovery is expected to be slow and take several years.	recovery is expected to be slow and take several years.			
Congressional Budget Office	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2011 through 2013	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2011 through 2013	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2011 through 2013	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2011 through 2013
Includes Presidents Budget	Actual			Forecast
January 2012 Forecast	2009	2010	2011	2012	2013
Nominal GDP Growth	-1.3%	4.2%	3.9%	3.6%	2.4%
Real GDP Growth	-2.5%	3.0%	1.7%	2.2%	1.0%
Consumer Price Index Change	1.7%	1.6%	3.2%	1.7%	1.5%
Unemployment Rate	9.3%	9.6%	9.0%	8.8%	9.1%
Three-Month Treasury Bill Rate	0.1%	0.14%	0.06%	0.05%	0.10%
Ten-Year Treasury Note Rate	3.2%	3.2%	2.8%	2.3%	2.5%
Philadelphia Federal Reserve	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2011 through 2013	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2011 through 2013	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2011 through 2013	Economic Forecast for Calendar Years 2011 through 2013
Survey of Professional Forecasters	Actual			Forecast
Median Forecasts 1st Qtr 2012	2009	2010	2011	2012	2013
Nominal GDP Growth	-1.3%	4.2%	2.2%	4.0%	4.5%
Real GDP Growth	-2.5%	3.0%	1.8%	2.3%	2.7%
Consumer Price Index Change	1.7%	1.6%	3.6%	2.0%	2.2%
Unemployment Rate	9.3%	9.6%	9.0%	8.3%	7.9%
Three-Month Treasury Bill Rate	0.10%	0.14%	0.1%	0.1%	0.1%
Ten-Year Treasury Note Rate	3.2%	3.2%	2.8%	2.2%	2.9%
FY2012-13 Operating Budget		35			As Amended June 12, 2012
